data/qdrant/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Qdrant"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Qdrant component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Qdrant component is a data component that allows users to build and search vector datasets.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Vector Search](#vector-search)
- [Batch Upsert](#batch-upsert)
- [Upsert](#upsert)
- [Delete](#delete)
- [Create Collection](#create-collection)
- [Delete Collection](#delete-collection)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/qdrant/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Qdrant API key. Please refer to clusters in Qdrant data access control |
| Qdrant URL Endpoint (required) | `url` | string | Fill in your Qdrant URL endpoint. Please refer to clusters in Qdrant cluster details |




## Supported Tasks

### Vector Search

Perform a vector search on a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_VECTOR_SEARCH` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to perform vector similarity search on |
| Vector (required) | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector query. |
| Limit (required) | `limit` | integer | The limit of points, empty for all points |
| Payloads | `payloads` | array[string] | The payloads to return in the points. If empty then all payloads will be returned |
| Filter | `filter` | object | The properties filter to be applied to the data with Qdrant filter, please refer to https://api.qdrant.tech/api-reference/search/points filter section |
| Params | `params` | object | The additional parameters to be passed to the search, please refer to https://api.qdrant.tech/api-reference/search/points params section |
| Min Score | `min-score` | number | The minimum score of the points to be returned |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | object | Result of the vector search operation |
| Status | `status` | string | Vector search status |






### Batch Upsert

Insert multiple vector points into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_BATCH_UPSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the point into |
| Array ID (required) | `array-id` | array[string] | The array of id |
| Array Metadata | `array-metadata` | array[object] | The array of vector metadata payload |
| Array Vector (required) | `array-vector` | array[array] | The array of vector values |
| Ordering | `ordering` | string | The ordering guarantees of the batch upsert |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Batch upsert status |






### Upsert

Upsert a vector point into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the point into |
| ID (required) | `id` | string | The ID of the point |
| Metadata | `metadata` | object | The vector metadata payload |
| Vector (required) | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector value |
| Ordering | `ordering` | string | The ordering guarantees of the batch upsert |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Upsert status |






### Delete

Delete vector points from a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to delete the object from |
| ID | `id` | string | The ID of the point |
| Filter | `filter` | object | The properties filter to be applied to the data with Qdrant filter, please refer to https://api.qdrant.tech/api-reference/points/delete-points filter section |
| Ordering | `ordering` | string | The ordering guarantees of the batch upsert |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete status |






### Create Collection

Create a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_COLLECTION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to create |
| Config (required) | `config` | object | The configuration of the collection. Please refer to https://api.qdrant.tech/api-reference/collections/create-collection |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Create collection status |






### Delete Collection

Delete a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE_COLLECTION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to delete |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete collection status |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

data/qdrant/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Qdrant"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Qdrant component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Qdrant component is a data component that allows users to build and search vector datasets.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Vector Search](#vector-search)
- [Batch Upsert](#batch-upsert)
- [Upsert](#upsert)
- [Delete](#delete)
- [Create Collection](#create-collection)
- [Delete Collection](#delete-collection)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/qdrant/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Qdrant, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Qdrant API key. Please refer to clusters in Qdrant data access control |
| Qdrant URL Endpoint (required) | `url` | string | Fill in your Qdrant URL endpoint. Please refer to clusters in Qdrant cluster details |




## Supported Tasks

### Vector Search

Perform a vector search on a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_VECTOR_SEARCH` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to perform vector similarity search on |
| Vector (required) | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector query. |
| Limit (required) | `limit` | integer | The limit of points, empty for all points |
| Payloads | `payloads` | array[string] | The payloads to return in the points. If empty then all payloads will be returned |
| Filter | `filter` | object | The properties filter to be applied to the data with Qdrant filter, please refer to https://api.qdrant.tech/api-reference/search/points filter section |
| Params | `params` | object | The additional parameters to be passed to the search, please refer to https://api.qdrant.tech/api-reference/search/points params section |
| Min Score | `min-score` | number | The minimum score of the points to be returned |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | object | Result of the vector search operation |
| Status | `status` | string | Vector search status |






### Batch Upsert

Insert multiple vector points into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_BATCH_UPSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the point into |
| Array ID (required) | `array-id` | array[string] | The array of id |
| Array Metadata | `array-metadata` | array[object] | The array of vector metadata payload |
| Array Vector (required) | `array-vector` | array[array] | The array of vector values |
| Ordering | `ordering` | string | The ordering guarantees of the batch upsert |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Batch upsert status |






### Upsert

Upsert a vector point into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the point into |
| ID (required) | `id` | string | The ID of the point |
| Metadata | `metadata` | object | The vector metadata payload |
| Vector (required) | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector value |
| Ordering | `ordering` | string | The ordering guarantees of the batch upsert |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Upsert status |






### Delete

Delete vector points from a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to delete the object from |
| ID | `id` | string | The ID of the point |
| Filter | `filter` | object | The properties filter to be applied to the data with Qdrant filter, please refer to https://api.qdrant.tech/api-reference/points/delete-points filter section |
| Ordering | `ordering` | string | The ordering guarantees of the batch upsert |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete status |






### Create Collection

Create a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_COLLECTION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to create |
| Config (required) | `config` | object | The configuration of the collection. Please refer to https://api.qdrant.tech/api-reference/collections/create-collection |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Create collection status |






### Delete Collection

Delete a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE_COLLECTION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to delete |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete collection status |
