application/email/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Email"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Email component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Email component is an application component that allows users to get and send email from Mail Protocol.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Send Email](#send-email)
- [Read Emails](#read-emails)

You can connect to different email servers through the Email component.
Emails are fetched and sent using the IMAP and SMTP protocols, respectively. You can set the server address and port for each protocol in the component configuration.


## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/email/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Server Address (required) | `server-address` | string | The address of the email server |
| Server Port (required) | `server-port` | integer | The port of the email server |
| Email Address (required) | `email-address` | string | The email address of the user |
| App Password (required) | `password` | string | The password of the App passwords in Gmail settings |

Supported Provider Samples for Sending Email

| Provider | SMTP Server Address | Port | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Gmail | smtp.gmail.com | 587 (TLS) or 465 (SSL) ||
| Outlook | smtp-mail.outlook.com | 587 ||
| Yahoo | smtp.mail.yahoo.com | 465 or 587 ||
| iCloud | smtp.mail.me.com | 587 | If you see an error message when using SSL, try using TLS or STARTTLS instead. |


Supported Provider Samples for Receiving Emails

| Provider | IMAP Server Address | Port |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Gmail | imap.gmail.com | 993 |
| Outlook | outlook.office365.com | 993 |
| Yahoo | imap.mail.yahoo.com | 993 |
| iCloud | imap.mail.me.com | 993 |


For App Password, please follow the steps below:
 - 1. Please Sign in to your Google Account with link: https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords
 - 2. Create a new App Password and save it in a secure place.
 - 3. Add App Password as a new secret in the Instill Platform by navigating to **Console** > **Settings** > **Secrets**.
 - 4. Reference the secret in the App Password field in the component configuration.



## Supported Tasks

### Send Email

Send an email to recipients


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SEND_EMAIL` |
| Recipient (required) | `recipients` | array[string] | The email addresses of the recipients |
| Cc | `cc` | array[string] | The email addresses for Carbon Copy |
| Bcc | `bcc` | array[string] | The email addresses for Blind Carbon Copy |
| Subject | `subject` | string | The subject of the email |
| Message (required) | `message` | string | The message to be sent |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | string | The result of sending the email |






### Read Emails

Read emails from a mailbox


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_READ_EMAILS` |
| Search | `search` | object | The search criteria for the emails |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Emails | `emails` | array[object] | The emails that match the search criteria |


#### Search object

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Mailbox (required) | `mailbox` | string | The mailbox you want to fetch from email server |
| Search Subject | `search-subject` | string | The text you want to search in the subject of the email |
| Search From | `search-from` | string | The email address you want to search in the from field of the email |
| Search To | `search-to` | string | The email address you want to search in the to field of the email |
| Search Date | `search-date` | string | The date you want to search in the email |
| Search Email Message | `search-email-message` | string | The text you want to search in the email message |
| Limit | `limit` | integer | The maximum number of emails to search for |


#### Mailbox

You have to confirm what exactly the mailbox name is.
Take Gmail as an example, the mailbox names are following.

| Mailbox | Mailbox Name to input |
| :--- | :--- |
| Inbox | `INBOX` |
| Sent | `[Gmail]/Sent Mail` |
| Drafts | `[Gmail]/Drafts` |


#### Search From and Search To
You need to input the exact same email address with `<` as a prefix and `>` as a suffix as the email you want to search for.
For example, if you want to search for the email from `email@example.com`, you need to input `<email@example.com>`.



#### Emails object

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Date | `date` | string | The date of the email |
| From | `from` | string | The email address of the sender |
| To | `to` | array[string] | The email address of the recipient |
| Subject | `subject` | string | The subject of the email |
| Message | `message` | string | The message of the email |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

application/email/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Email"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Email component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Email component is an application component that allows users to get and send email from Mail Protocol.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Send Email](#send-email)
- [Read Emails](#read-emails)

You can connect to different email servers through the Email component.
Emails are fetched and sent using the IMAP and SMTP protocols, respectively. You can set the server address and port for each protocol in the component configuration.


## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/email/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with the
external application, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Server Address (required) | `server-address` | string | The address of the email server |
| Server Port (required) | `server-port` | integer | The port of the email server |
| Email Address (required) | `email-address` | string | The email address of the user |
| App Password (required) | `password` | string | The password of the App passwords in Gmail settings |

Supported Provider Samples for Sending Email

| Provider | SMTP Server Address | Port | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Gmail | smtp.gmail.com | 587 (TLS) or 465 (SSL) ||
| Outlook | smtp-mail.outlook.com | 587 ||
| Yahoo | smtp.mail.yahoo.com | 465 or 587 ||
| iCloud | smtp.mail.me.com | 587 | If you see an error message when using SSL, try using TLS or STARTTLS instead. |


Supported Provider Samples for Receiving Emails

| Provider | IMAP Server Address | Port |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Gmail | imap.gmail.com | 993 |
| Outlook | outlook.office365.com | 993 |
| Yahoo | imap.mail.yahoo.com | 993 |
| iCloud | imap.mail.me.com | 993 |


For App Password, please follow the steps below:
 - 1. Please Sign in to your Google Account with link: https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords
 - 2. Create a new App Password and save it in a secure place.
 - 3. Add App Password as a new secret in the Instill Platform by navigating to **Console** > **Settings** > **Secrets**.
 - 4. Reference the secret in the App Password field in the component configuration.



## Supported Tasks

### Send Email

Send an email to recipients


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SEND_EMAIL` |
| Recipient (required) | `recipients` | array[string] | The email addresses of the recipients |
| Cc | `cc` | array[string] | The email addresses for Carbon Copy |
| Bcc | `bcc` | array[string] | The email addresses for Blind Carbon Copy |
| Subject | `subject` | string | The subject of the email |
| Message (required) | `message` | string | The message to be sent |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | string | The result of sending the email |






### Read Emails

Read emails from a mailbox


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_READ_EMAILS` |
| Search | `search` | object | The search criteria for the emails |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Emails | `emails` | array[object] | The emails that match the search criteria |


#### Search object

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Mailbox (required) | `mailbox` | string | The mailbox you want to fetch from email server |
| Search Subject | `search-subject` | string | The text you want to search in the subject of the email |
| Search From | `search-from` | string | The email address you want to search in the from field of the email |
| Search To | `search-to` | string | The email address you want to search in the to field of the email |
| Search Date | `search-date` | string | The date you want to search in the email |
| Search Email Message | `search-email-message` | string | The text you want to search in the email message |
| Limit | `limit` | integer | The maximum number of emails to search for |


#### Mailbox

You have to confirm what exactly the mailbox name is.
Take Gmail as an example, the mailbox names are following.

| Mailbox | Mailbox Name to input |
| :--- | :--- |
| Inbox | `INBOX` |
| Sent | `[Gmail]/Sent Mail` |
| Drafts | `[Gmail]/Drafts` |


#### Search From and Search To
You need to input the exact same email address with `<` as a prefix and `>` as a suffix as the email you want to search for.
For example, if you want to search for the email from `email@example.com`, you need to input `<email@example.com>`.



#### Emails object

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Date | `date` | string | The date of the email |
| From | `from` | string | The email address of the sender |
| To | `to` | array[string] | The email address of the recipient |
| Subject | `subject` | string | The subject of the email |
| Message | `message` | string | The message of the email |
