application/slack/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Slack"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Slack component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Slack component is an application component that allows users to get and send message on Slack.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Read Message](#read-message)
- [Send Message](#send-message)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/slack/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Token (required) | `token` | string | Fill in your Slack app access token. For more information about how to access to create app tokens, please refer to the Slack API documentation. |




## Supported Tasks

### Read Message

Get the latest message since specific date


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_READ_MESSAGE` |
| Channel Name (required) | `channel-name` | string | A channel name display in Slack |
| Start to read date | `start-to-read-date` | string | earliest date in all read messages |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Conversations | `conversations` | array[object] | An array of conversations with thread messages |






### Send Message

send message to a specific channel


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_WRITE_MESSAGE` |
| Channel Name (required) | `channel-name` | string | A channel name display in Slack |
| Message (required) | `message` | string | message to be sent to the target channel |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | string | result for sending message |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

application/slack/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Slack"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Slack component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Slack component is an application component that allows users to get and send message on Slack.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Read Message](#read-message)
- [Send Message](#send-message)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/slack/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Slack, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Token (required) | `token` | string | Fill in your Slack app access token. For more information about how to access to create app tokens, please refer to the Slack API documentation. |




## Supported Tasks

### Read Message

Get the latest message since specific date


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_READ_MESSAGE` |
| Channel Name (required) | `channel-name` | string | A channel name display in Slack |
| Start to read date | `start-to-read-date` | string | earliest date in all read messages |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Conversations | `conversations` | array[object] | An array of conversations with thread messages |






### Send Message

send message to a specific channel


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_WRITE_MESSAGE` |
| Channel Name (required) | `channel-name` | string | A channel name display in Slack |
| Message (required) | `message` | string | message to be sent to the target channel |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | string | result for sending message |
