data/zilliz/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Zilliz"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Zilliz component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Zilliz component is a data component that allows users to build and search vector datasets.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Vector Search](#vector-search)
- [Upsert](#upsert)
- [Batch Upsert](#batch-upsert)
- [Delete](#delete)
- [Create Collection](#create-collection)
- [Drop Collection](#drop-collection)
- [Create Partition](#create-partition)
- [Drop Partition](#drop-partition)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/zilliz/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Zilliz URL Endpoint (required) | `url` | string | Fill in your Zilliz public URL endpoint |
| Zilliz API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Zilliz API key |




## Supported Tasks

### Vector Search

Perform a vector search on a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_VECTOR_SEARCH` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to perform vector search on |
| Partition Name | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to vector search the data from |
| Vector (required) | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector search |
| Vector Field (required) | `vector-field` | string | The name of the field to perform vector search on |
| Fields | `fields` | array[string] | The fields to return in the data. If empty then all fields will be returned |
| Limit (required) | `limit` | integer | The limit of the data to return |
| Filter | `filter` | string | The properties filter to be applied to the data with zilliz scalar filter, please refer to [filtered-search](https://docs.zilliz.com/docs/single-vector-search?_highlight=filter/docs/single-vector-search#filtered-search) |
| Offset | `offset` | integer | The offset of the data to return |
| Grouping Field | `grouping-field` | string | The name of the field to group the data by, please refer to [grouping-search](https://docs.zilliz.com/docs/release-notes-290?_highlight=grouping&_highlight=field/docs/release-notes-290#grouping-search) |
| Search Parameters | `search-params` | object | The search parameters to be applied to the data with zilliz search parameters, please refer to [search-parameters](https://docs.zilliz.com/docs/single-vector-search?_highlight=search&_highlight=params/docs/single-vector-search#search-parameters) |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | object | Result of the vector search operation |
| Status | `status` | string | Vector search status |






### Upsert

Insert a vector data into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the data into |
| Partition Name | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to upsert the data from. If empty then default partition will be used |
| Data (required) | `data` | object | The data |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Upsert status |






### Batch Upsert

Insert a batch of vector data into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_BATCH_UPSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the data into |
| Partition Name | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to upsert the data from. If empty then default partition will be used |
| Array Data (required) | `array-data` | array[object] | The data |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Batch upsert status |






### Delete

Delete vector data from a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to delete the data from |
| Partition Name | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to delete the data from. If empty then default partition will be used |
| Filter | `filter` | string | The properties filter to be applied to the data with zilliz scalar filter, please refer to [filtered-search](https://docs.zilliz.com/docs/single-vector-search?_highlight=filter/docs/single-vector-search#filtered-search) |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete status |






### Create Collection

Create a collection, please refer to [create-collection-v2](https://docs.zilliz.com/reference/restful/create-collection-v2)


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_COLLECTION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to create |
| Dimension (required) | `dimension` | integer | The dimension of the collection |
| ID Type | `id-type` | string | The type of the id |
| Schema | `schema` | object | The schema of the collection |
| Auto ID | `auto-id` | boolean | Whether to auto generate id |
| Metric Type | `metric-type` | string | The metric type of the collection |
| Index Parameters | `index-params` | object | The index parameters to be applied to the collection with zilliz index parameters, please refer to [index-parameter](https://zilliz.io/docs/single-vector-search.md#Index-parameters) |
| Parameters | `params` | object | The parameters to be applied to the collection with zilliz parameters, please refer to [parameters](https://zilliz.io/docs/single-vector-search.md#Parameters) |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Create collection status |






### Drop Collection

Drop a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DROP_COLLECTION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to drop |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Drop collection status |






### Create Partition

Create a partition in a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_PARTITION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to create the partition in |
| Partition Name (required) | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to create |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Create partition status |






### Drop Partition

Drop a partition from a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DROP_PARTITION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to drop the partition from |
| Partition Name (required) | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to drop |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Drop partition status |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

data/zilliz/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Zilliz"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Zilliz component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Zilliz component is a data component that allows users to build and search vector datasets.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Vector Search](#vector-search)
- [Upsert](#upsert)
- [Batch Upsert](#batch-upsert)
- [Delete](#delete)
- [Create Collection](#create-collection)
- [Drop Collection](#drop-collection)
- [Create Partition](#create-partition)
- [Drop Partition](#drop-partition)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/zilliz/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Zilliz, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Zilliz URL Endpoint (required) | `url` | string | Fill in your Zilliz public URL endpoint |
| Zilliz API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Zilliz API key |




## Supported Tasks

### Vector Search

Perform a vector search on a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_VECTOR_SEARCH` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to perform vector search on |
| Partition Name | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to vector search the data from |
| Vector (required) | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector search |
| Vector Field (required) | `vector-field` | string | The name of the field to perform vector search on |
| Fields | `fields` | array[string] | The fields to return in the data. If empty then all fields will be returned |
| Limit (required) | `limit` | integer | The limit of the data to return |
| Filter | `filter` | string | The properties filter to be applied to the data with zilliz scalar filter, please refer to [filtered-search](https://docs.zilliz.com/docs/single-vector-search?_highlight=filter/docs/single-vector-search#filtered-search) |
| Offset | `offset` | integer | The offset of the data to return |
| Grouping Field | `grouping-field` | string | The name of the field to group the data by, please refer to [grouping-search](https://docs.zilliz.com/docs/release-notes-290?_highlight=grouping&_highlight=field/docs/release-notes-290#grouping-search) |
| Search Parameters | `search-params` | object | The search parameters to be applied to the data with zilliz search parameters, please refer to [search-parameters](https://docs.zilliz.com/docs/single-vector-search?_highlight=search&_highlight=params/docs/single-vector-search#search-parameters) |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | object | Result of the vector search operation |
| Status | `status` | string | Vector search status |






### Upsert

Insert a vector data into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the data into |
| Partition Name | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to upsert the data from. If empty then default partition will be used |
| Data (required) | `data` | object | The data |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Upsert status |






### Batch Upsert

Insert a batch of vector data into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_BATCH_UPSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the data into |
| Partition Name | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to upsert the data from. If empty then default partition will be used |
| Array Data (required) | `array-data` | array[object] | The data |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Batch upsert status |






### Delete

Delete vector data from a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to delete the data from |
| Partition Name | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to delete the data from. If empty then default partition will be used |
| Filter | `filter` | string | The properties filter to be applied to the data with zilliz scalar filter, please refer to [filtered-search](https://docs.zilliz.com/docs/single-vector-search?_highlight=filter/docs/single-vector-search#filtered-search) |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete status |






### Create Collection

Create a collection, please refer to [create-collection-v2](https://docs.zilliz.com/reference/restful/create-collection-v2)


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_COLLECTION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to create |
| Dimension (required) | `dimension` | integer | The dimension of the collection |
| ID Type | `id-type` | string | The type of the id |
| Schema | `schema` | object | The schema of the collection |
| Auto ID | `auto-id` | boolean | Whether to auto generate id |
| Metric Type | `metric-type` | string | The metric type of the collection |
| Index Parameters | `index-params` | object | The index parameters to be applied to the collection with zilliz index parameters, please refer to [index-parameter](https://zilliz.io/docs/single-vector-search.md#Index-parameters) |
| Parameters | `params` | object | The parameters to be applied to the collection with zilliz parameters, please refer to [parameters](https://zilliz.io/docs/single-vector-search.md#Parameters) |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Create collection status |






### Drop Collection

Drop a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DROP_COLLECTION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to drop |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Drop collection status |






### Create Partition

Create a partition in a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_PARTITION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to create the partition in |
| Partition Name (required) | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to create |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Create partition status |






### Drop Partition

Drop a partition from a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DROP_PARTITION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to drop the partition from |
| Partition Name (required) | `partition-name` | string | The name of the partition to drop |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Drop partition status |
