data/pinecone/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Pinecone"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Pinecone component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Pinecone component is a data component that allows users to build and search vector datasets.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Query](#query)
- [Upsert](#upsert)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/pinecone/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Pinecone AI API key. You can create an api key in Pinecone Console |
| Pinecone Base URL (required) | `url` | string | Fill in your Pinecone base URL. It is in the form |




## Supported Tasks

### Query

Retrieve the ids of the most similar items in a namespace, along with their similarity scores.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_QUERY` |
| ID | `id` | string | The unique ID of the vector to be used as a query vector. If present, the vector parameter will be ignored. |
| Vector (required) | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the query vector. |
| Top K (required) | `top-k` | integer | The number of results to return for each query |
| Namespace | `namespace` | string | The namespace to query |
| Filter | `filter` | object | The filter to apply. You can use vector metadata to limit your search. See more details <a href="https://www.pinecone.io/docs/metadata-filtering/">here</a>. |
| Minimum Score | `min-score` | number | Exclude results whose score is below this value |
| Include Metadata | `include-metadata` | boolean | Indicates whether metadata is included in the response as well as the IDs |
| Include Values | `include-values` | boolean | Indicates whether vector values are included in the response |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Namespace | `namespace` | string | The namespace of the query |
| Matches | `matches` | array[object] | The matches returned for the query |






### Upsert

Writes vectors into a namespace. If a new value is upserted for an existing vector id, it will overwrite the previous value.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPSERT` |
| ID (required) | `id` | string | This is the vector's unique id |
| Values (required) | `values` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector to be saved |
| Namespace | `namespace` | string | The namespace to query |
| Metadata | `metadata` | object | The vector metadata |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Upserted Count | `upserted-count` | integer | Number of records modified or added |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

data/pinecone/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Pinecone"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Pinecone component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Pinecone component is a data component that allows users to build and search vector datasets.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Query](#query)
- [Upsert](#upsert)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/pinecone/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Pinecone, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Pinecone AI API key. You can create an api key in Pinecone Console |
| Pinecone Base URL (required) | `url` | string | Fill in your Pinecone base URL. It is in the form |




## Supported Tasks

### Query

Retrieve the ids of the most similar items in a namespace, along with their similarity scores.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_QUERY` |
| ID | `id` | string | The unique ID of the vector to be used as a query vector. If present, the vector parameter will be ignored. |
| Vector (required) | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the query vector. |
| Top K (required) | `top-k` | integer | The number of results to return for each query |
| Namespace | `namespace` | string | The namespace to query |
| Filter | `filter` | object | The filter to apply. You can use vector metadata to limit your search. See more details <a href="https://www.pinecone.io/docs/metadata-filtering/">here</a>. |
| Minimum Score | `min-score` | number | Exclude results whose score is below this value |
| Include Metadata | `include-metadata` | boolean | Indicates whether metadata is included in the response as well as the IDs |
| Include Values | `include-values` | boolean | Indicates whether vector values are included in the response |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Namespace | `namespace` | string | The namespace of the query |
| Matches | `matches` | array[object] | The matches returned for the query |






### Upsert

Writes vectors into a namespace. If a new value is upserted for an existing vector id, it will overwrite the previous value.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPSERT` |
| ID (required) | `id` | string | This is the vector's unique id |
| Values (required) | `values` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector to be saved |
| Namespace | `namespace` | string | The namespace to query |
| Metadata | `metadata` | object | The vector metadata |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Upserted Count | `upserted-count` | integer | Number of records modified or added |
