data/bigquery/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "BigQuery"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP BigQuery component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The BigQuery component is a data component that allows users to insert data to BigQuery tables.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Insert](#insert)

## Release Stage

`Alpha`

## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/bigquery/v0/config/definition.json).

## Setup

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| JSON Key File contents (required) | `json-key` | string | Contents of the JSON key file with access to the bucket. |
| BigQuery Project ID (required) | `project-id` | string | Fill in your BigQuery Project ID. |
| BigQuery Dataset ID (required) | `dataset-id` | string | Fill in your BigQuery Dataset ID. |
| BigQuery Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | Fill in your BigQuery Table Name. |

## Supported Tasks

### Insert

Insert data to BigQuery.

| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_INSERT` |
| Data (required) | `data` | object | The data to be inserted to BigQuery |

| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Status of the upload operation |

Commit message:

chore: add description in document

data/bigquery/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "BigQuery"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP BigQuery component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The BigQuery component is a data component that allows users to insert data to BigQuery tables.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Insert](#insert)
- [Read](#read)

## Release Stage

`Alpha`

## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/bigquery/v0/config/definition.json).

## Setup

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| JSON Key File contents (required) | `json-key` | string | Contents of the JSON key file with access to the bucket. |
| BigQuery Project ID (required) | `project-id` | string | Fill in your BigQuery Project ID. |
| BigQuery Dataset ID (required) | `dataset-id` | string | Fill in your BigQuery Dataset ID. |
| BigQuery Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | Fill in your BigQuery Table Name. |

## Supported Tasks

### Insert

Insert data to BigQuery.

| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_INSERT` |
| Data | `data` | object | The data to be inserted to BigQuery |

| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Status of the upload operation |

### Read

Read data from BigQuery.

| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_READ` |
| Filtering | `filtering` | string | The filter to be applied to the data, please start with where clause |

| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Data | `data` | array[object] | The data to be read from BigQuery |
