application/googlesearch/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Google Search"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Google Search component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Google Search component is an application component that allows users to leverage the Google Search engine.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Search](#search)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/googlesearch/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | API Key for the Google Custom Search API. You can create one <a href="https://developers.google.com/custom-search/v1/overview#api-key">here</a> |
| Search Engine ID (required) | `cse-id` | string | ID of the Search Engine to use. Before using the Custom Search JSON API you will first need to create and configure your Programmable Search Engine. If you have not already created a Programmable Search Engine, you can start by visiting [the Programmable Search Engine control panel](https://programmablesearchengine.google.com/controlpanel/all). <br /> You can find this in the URL of your Search Engine. For example, if the URL of your search engine is `https://cse.google.com/cse.js?cx=012345678910`, the ID value is: `012345678910` |




## Supported Tasks

### Search

Search data via Google Search Engine.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SEARCH` |
| Query (required) | `query` | string | The search query for Google |
| Top K | `top-k` | integer | The number of results to return for each query |
| Include Link Text | `include-link-text` | boolean | Indicate whether to scrape the link and include the text of the link associated with this search result in the 'link-text' field |
| Include Link HTML | `include-link-html` | boolean | Indicate whether to scrape the link and include the raw HTML of the link associated with this search result in the 'link-html' field |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Results | `results` | array[object] | The returned search results from Google |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

application/googlesearch/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Google Search"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Google Search component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Google Search component is an application component that allows users to leverage the Google Search engine.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Search](#search)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/googlesearch/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Google, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | API Key for the Google Custom Search API. You can create one <a href="https://developers.google.com/custom-search/v1/overview#api-key">here</a> |
| Search Engine ID (required) | `cse-id` | string | ID of the Search Engine to use. Before using the Custom Search JSON API you will first need to create and configure your Programmable Search Engine. If you have not already created a Programmable Search Engine, you can start by visiting [the Programmable Search Engine control panel](https://programmablesearchengine.google.com/controlpanel/all). <br /> You can find this in the URL of your Search Engine. For example, if the URL of your search engine is `https://cse.google.com/cse.js?cx=012345678910`, the ID value is: `012345678910` |




## Supported Tasks

### Search

Search data via Google Search Engine.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SEARCH` |
| Query (required) | `query` | string | The search query for Google |
| Top K | `top-k` | integer | The number of results to return for each query |
| Include Link Text | `include-link-text` | boolean | Indicate whether to scrape the link and include the text of the link associated with this search result in the 'link-text' field |
| Include Link HTML | `include-link-html` | boolean | Indicate whether to scrape the link and include the raw HTML of the link associated with this search result in the 'link-html' field |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Results | `results` | array[object] | The returned search results from Google |
