ai/mistralai/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Mistral AI"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Mistral AI component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Mistral AI component is an AI component that allows users to connect the AI models served on the Mistral AI Platform.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Text Generation Chat](#text-generation-chat)
- [Text Embeddings](#text-embeddings)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/ai/mistralai/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Mistral API key. To find your keys, visit the Mistral AI platform page. |




## Supported Tasks

### Text Generation Chat

Provide text outputs in response to text inputs.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT` |
| Model Name (required) | `model-name` | string | The Mistral model to be used |
| Prompt (required) | `prompt` | string | The prompt text |
| System message | `system-message` | string | The system message helps set the behavior of the assistant. For example, you can modify the personality of the assistant or provide specific instructions about how it should behave throughout the conversation. By default, the model’s behavior is set using a generic message as "You are a helpful assistant." |
| Prompt Images | `prompt-images` | array[string] | The prompt images (Note: The Mistral models are not trained to process images, thus images will be omitted) |
| Chat history | `chat-history` | array[object] | Incorporate external chat history, specifically previous messages within the conversation. Please note that System Message will be ignored and will not have any effect when this field is populated. Each message should adhere to the format: : \{"role": "The message role, i.e. 'system', 'user' or 'assistant'", "content": "message content"\} |
| Seed | `seed` | integer | The seed |
| Temperature | `temperature` | number | The temperature for sampling |
| Top K | `top-k` | integer | Integer to define the top tokens considered within the sample operation to create new text (Note: The Mistral models does not support top-k sampling) |
| Max new tokens | `max-new-tokens` | integer | The maximum number of tokens for model to generate |
| Top P | `top-p` | number | Float to define the tokens that are within the sample operation of text generation. Add tokens in the sample for more probable to least probable until the sum of the probabilities is greater than top-p (default=0.5) |
| Safe | `safe` | boolean | Safe generation mode |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Text | `text` | string | Model Output |
| Usage (optional) | `usage` | object | Token usage on the Mistral platform text generation models |






### Text Embeddings

Turn text into a vector of numbers that capture its meaning, unlocking use cases like semantic search.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_EMBEDDINGS` |
| Model Name (required) | `model-name` | string | The Mistral embed model to be used |
| Text (required) | `text` | string | The text |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Embedding | `embedding` | array[number] | Embedding of the input text |
| Usage (optional) | `usage` | object | Token usage on the Mistral platform embedding models |






## Example Recipes

Recipe for the [Short-film Script Writer](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/mistral-demo/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    mistral-0:
        type: mistral-ai
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT
        input:
            max-new-tokens: 1500
            model-name: codestral-latest
            prompt: |-
                Generate a short-film movie script with the following placeholders:
                [THEME]: ${variable.theme}
                [GENRE]: ${variable.genre}
                [NUM_ACTORS]: ${variable.num_actors}
                [SETTING]: ${variable.setting}
                [TIME_PERIOD]: The era or time frame of the story
                [DURATION]: ${variable.duration}
                [CONFLICT]: ${variable.conflict}

                Please create a script that includes:

                A brief synopsis (2-3 sentences)
                Character descriptions for each main character
                Scene-by-scene breakdown with dialogue and basic action descriptions
                A conclusion that resolves the main conflict

                Ensure the script is coherent, engaging, and fits within the specified parameters. Be creative with the storytelling while maintaining the structure of a proper short film script.
            safe: false
            system-message: You are a helpful assistant.
            temperature: 0.7
            top-k: 10
            top-p: 0.5
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    conflict:
        title: Conflict
        description: The main problem or challenge faced by the characters i.e. existential crisis
        instill-format: string
    duration:
        title: Duration
        description: Approximate length of the film in minutes i.e. 5
        instill-format: string
    genre:
        title: Genre
        description: The type of genre for this film i.e. romance, comedy, horror, action, etc.
        instill-format: string
    num_actors:
        title: Num_actors
        description: The number of actors that will be in this film i.e. 2
        instill-format: string
    setting:
        title: Setting
        description: |
            The primary location where the story takes place i.e. Rome
        instill-format: string
    theme:
        title: Theme
        description: Insert the main theme or central idea of the film i.e. time travelling
        instill-format: string
    time-period:
        title: Time Period
        description: The era or time frame of the story i.e. stone age, 20th century, etc.
        instill-format: string
output:
    result:
        title: Result
        value: ${mistral-0.output.text}

```

Recipe for the [PicassoAI: Cubist Creations at Your Command!](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/picasso-ai/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    mistral-0:
        type: mistral-ai
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT
        input:
            max-new-tokens: 100
            model-name: open-mixtral-8x22b
            prompt: |-
                Generate a Picasso-inspired image based on the following user input:

                ${variable.prompt}

                Using the specified Picasso period: ${variable.period}


                Transform this input into a detailed text-to-image prompt by:

                1. Identifying the key elements or subjects in the user's description

                2. Adding artistic elements and techniques specific to the ${variable.period} period of Picasso's work

                3. Including cubist or abstract features characteristic of the ${variable.period}

                4. Suggesting a composition or scene layout typical of Picasso's work from this era

                Enhance the prompt with vivid, descriptive language and specific Picasso-style elements from the ${variable.period}. The final prompt should begin with "Create an image in the style of Picasso's ${variable.period} period:" followed by the enhanced description.
            safe: false
            system-message: You are a helpful assistant.
            temperature: 0.7
            top-k: 10
            top-p: 0.5
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
    openai-0:
        type: openai
        task: TASK_TEXT_TO_IMAGE
        input:
            model: dall-e-3
            "n": 1
            prompt: |-
                Using this primary color palette: ${variable.colour}

                 ${mistral-0.output.text}
            quality: standard
            size: 1024x1024
            style: vivid
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    colour:
        title: Colour
        description: Describe the main colour to use i.e. blue, random
        instill-format: string
        instill-ui-order: 1
    period:
        title: Period
        description: |
            Input different Picasso periods i.e. Blue, Rose, African, Synthetic Cubism, etc.
        instill-format: string
    prompt:
        title: Prompt
        description: Input prompt here i.e. "A cute baby wombat"
        instill-format: string
output:
    image:
        title: Image
        value: ${openai-0.output.results}
```

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

ai/mistralai/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Mistral AI"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Mistral AI component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Mistral AI component is an AI component that allows users to connect the AI models served on the Mistral AI Platform.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Text Generation Chat](#text-generation-chat)
- [Text Embeddings](#text-embeddings)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/ai/mistralai/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Mistral AI, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Mistral API key. To find your keys, visit the Mistral AI platform page. |




## Supported Tasks

### Text Generation Chat

Provide text outputs in response to text inputs.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT` |
| Model Name (required) | `model-name` | string | The Mistral model to be used |
| Prompt (required) | `prompt` | string | The prompt text |
| System message | `system-message` | string | The system message helps set the behavior of the assistant. For example, you can modify the personality of the assistant or provide specific instructions about how it should behave throughout the conversation. By default, the model’s behavior is set using a generic message as "You are a helpful assistant." |
| Prompt Images | `prompt-images` | array[string] | The prompt images (Note: The Mistral models are not trained to process images, thus images will be omitted) |
| Chat history | `chat-history` | array[object] | Incorporate external chat history, specifically previous messages within the conversation. Please note that System Message will be ignored and will not have any effect when this field is populated. Each message should adhere to the format: : \{"role": "The message role, i.e. 'system', 'user' or 'assistant'", "content": "message content"\} |
| Seed | `seed` | integer | The seed |
| Temperature | `temperature` | number | The temperature for sampling |
| Top K | `top-k` | integer | Integer to define the top tokens considered within the sample operation to create new text (Note: The Mistral models does not support top-k sampling) |
| Max new tokens | `max-new-tokens` | integer | The maximum number of tokens for model to generate |
| Top P | `top-p` | number | Float to define the tokens that are within the sample operation of text generation. Add tokens in the sample for more probable to least probable until the sum of the probabilities is greater than top-p (default=0.5) |
| Safe | `safe` | boolean | Safe generation mode |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Text | `text` | string | Model Output |
| Usage (optional) | `usage` | object | Token usage on the Mistral platform text generation models |






### Text Embeddings

Turn text into a vector of numbers that capture its meaning, unlocking use cases like semantic search.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_EMBEDDINGS` |
| Model Name (required) | `model-name` | string | The Mistral embed model to be used |
| Text (required) | `text` | string | The text |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Embedding | `embedding` | array[number] | Embedding of the input text |
| Usage (optional) | `usage` | object | Token usage on the Mistral platform embedding models |






## Example Recipes

Recipe for the [Short-film Script Writer](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/mistral-demo/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    mistral-0:
        type: mistral-ai
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT
        input:
            max-new-tokens: 1500
            model-name: codestral-latest
            prompt: |-
                Generate a short-film movie script with the following placeholders:
                [THEME]: ${variable.theme}
                [GENRE]: ${variable.genre}
                [NUM_ACTORS]: ${variable.num_actors}
                [SETTING]: ${variable.setting}
                [TIME_PERIOD]: The era or time frame of the story
                [DURATION]: ${variable.duration}
                [CONFLICT]: ${variable.conflict}

                Please create a script that includes:

                A brief synopsis (2-3 sentences)
                Character descriptions for each main character
                Scene-by-scene breakdown with dialogue and basic action descriptions
                A conclusion that resolves the main conflict

                Ensure the script is coherent, engaging, and fits within the specified parameters. Be creative with the storytelling while maintaining the structure of a proper short film script.
            safe: false
            system-message: You are a helpful assistant.
            temperature: 0.7
            top-k: 10
            top-p: 0.5
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    conflict:
        title: Conflict
        description: The main problem or challenge faced by the characters i.e. existential crisis
        instill-format: string
    duration:
        title: Duration
        description: Approximate length of the film in minutes i.e. 5
        instill-format: string
    genre:
        title: Genre
        description: The type of genre for this film i.e. romance, comedy, horror, action, etc.
        instill-format: string
    num_actors:
        title: Num_actors
        description: The number of actors that will be in this film i.e. 2
        instill-format: string
    setting:
        title: Setting
        description: |
            The primary location where the story takes place i.e. Rome
        instill-format: string
    theme:
        title: Theme
        description: Insert the main theme or central idea of the film i.e. time travelling
        instill-format: string
    time-period:
        title: Time Period
        description: The era or time frame of the story i.e. stone age, 20th century, etc.
        instill-format: string
output:
    result:
        title: Result
        value: ${mistral-0.output.text}

```

Recipe for the [PicassoAI: Cubist Creations at Your Command!](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/picasso-ai/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    mistral-0:
        type: mistral-ai
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT
        input:
            max-new-tokens: 100
            model-name: open-mixtral-8x22b
            prompt: |-
                Generate a Picasso-inspired image based on the following user input:

                ${variable.prompt}

                Using the specified Picasso period: ${variable.period}


                Transform this input into a detailed text-to-image prompt by:

                1. Identifying the key elements or subjects in the user's description

                2. Adding artistic elements and techniques specific to the ${variable.period} period of Picasso's work

                3. Including cubist or abstract features characteristic of the ${variable.period}

                4. Suggesting a composition or scene layout typical of Picasso's work from this era

                Enhance the prompt with vivid, descriptive language and specific Picasso-style elements from the ${variable.period}. The final prompt should begin with "Create an image in the style of Picasso's ${variable.period} period:" followed by the enhanced description.
            safe: false
            system-message: You are a helpful assistant.
            temperature: 0.7
            top-k: 10
            top-p: 0.5
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
    openai-0:
        type: openai
        task: TASK_TEXT_TO_IMAGE
        input:
            model: dall-e-3
            "n": 1
            prompt: |-
                Using this primary color palette: ${variable.colour}

                 ${mistral-0.output.text}
            quality: standard
            size: 1024x1024
            style: vivid
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    colour:
        title: Colour
        description: Describe the main colour to use i.e. blue, random
        instill-format: string
        instill-ui-order: 1
    period:
        title: Period
        description: |
            Input different Picasso periods i.e. Blue, Rose, African, Synthetic Cubism, etc.
        instill-format: string
    prompt:
        title: Prompt
        description: Input prompt here i.e. "A cute baby wombat"
        instill-format: string
output:
    image:
        title: Image
        value: ${openai-0.output.results}
```
