ai/groq/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Groq"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Groq component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Groq component is an AI component that allows users to connect the AI models served on GroqCloud.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Text Generation Chat](#text-generation-chat)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/ai/groq/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key | `api-key` | string | Fill in your GroqCloud API key. To find your keys, visit the GroqCloud API Keys page. |




## Supported Tasks

### Text Generation Chat

Provide text outputs in response to text inputs.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The OSS model to be used |
| Prompt (required) | `prompt` | string | The prompt text |
| System message | `system-message` | string | The system message helps set the behavior of the assistant. For example, you can modify the personality of the assistant or provide specific instructions about how it should behave throughout the conversation. By default, the model’s behavior is set using a generic message as "You are a helpful assistant." |
| Prompt Images | `prompt-images` | array[string] | The prompt images (Note: Only a subset of OSS models support image inputs) |
| Chat history | `chat-history` | array[object] | Incorporate external chat history, specifically previous messages within the conversation. Please note that System Message will be ignored and will not have any effect when this field is populated. Each message should adhere to the format: : \{"role": "The message role, i.e. 'system', 'user' or 'assistant'", "content": "message content"\} |
| Seed | `seed` | integer | The seed |
| Temperature | `temperature` | number | The temperature for sampling |
| Top K | `top-k` | integer | Integer to define the top tokens considered within the sample operation to create new text |
| Max new tokens | `max-new-tokens` | integer | The maximum number of tokens for model to generate |
| Top P | `top-p` | number | Float to define the tokens that are within the sample operation of text generation. Add tokens in the sample for more probable to least probable until the sum of the probabilities is greater than top-p (default=0.5) |
| User | `user` | string | The user name passed to GroqPlatform |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Text | `text` | string | Model Output |
| Usage (optional) | `usage` | object | Token usage on the GroqCloud platform text generation models |






## Example Recipes

Recipe for the [Groq Interview Helper](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/groq-interview-helper/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    groq-0:
        type: groq
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT
        input:
            max-new-tokens: 300
            model: llama3-groq-70b-8192-tool-use-preview
            prompt: |-
                Rewrite this experience using the STAR (Situation, Task, Action, Result) method for a resume or CV:

                ${variable.experience}
            system-message: You are a helpful resume assistant.
            temperature: 0.05
            top-k: 10
            top-p: 0.5
            user: instill-ai
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    experience:
        title: experience
        description: describe your work experience
        instill-format: string
        instill-ui-multiline: true
output:
    resume_format:
        title: resume_format
        value: ${groq-0.output.text}
```

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

ai/groq/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Groq"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Groq component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Groq component is an AI component that allows users to connect the AI models served on GroqCloud.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Text Generation Chat](#text-generation-chat)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/ai/groq/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Groq, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key | `api-key` | string | Fill in your GroqCloud API key. To find your keys, visit the GroqCloud API Keys page. |




## Supported Tasks

### Text Generation Chat

Provide text outputs in response to text inputs.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The OSS model to be used |
| Prompt (required) | `prompt` | string | The prompt text |
| System message | `system-message` | string | The system message helps set the behavior of the assistant. For example, you can modify the personality of the assistant or provide specific instructions about how it should behave throughout the conversation. By default, the model’s behavior is set using a generic message as "You are a helpful assistant." |
| Prompt Images | `prompt-images` | array[string] | The prompt images (Note: Only a subset of OSS models support image inputs) |
| Chat history | `chat-history` | array[object] | Incorporate external chat history, specifically previous messages within the conversation. Please note that System Message will be ignored and will not have any effect when this field is populated. Each message should adhere to the format: : \{"role": "The message role, i.e. 'system', 'user' or 'assistant'", "content": "message content"\} |
| Seed | `seed` | integer | The seed |
| Temperature | `temperature` | number | The temperature for sampling |
| Top K | `top-k` | integer | Integer to define the top tokens considered within the sample operation to create new text |
| Max new tokens | `max-new-tokens` | integer | The maximum number of tokens for model to generate |
| Top P | `top-p` | number | Float to define the tokens that are within the sample operation of text generation. Add tokens in the sample for more probable to least probable until the sum of the probabilities is greater than top-p (default=0.5) |
| User | `user` | string | The user name passed to GroqPlatform |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Text | `text` | string | Model Output |
| Usage (optional) | `usage` | object | Token usage on the GroqCloud platform text generation models |






## Example Recipes

Recipe for the [Groq Interview Helper](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/groq-interview-helper/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    groq-0:
        type: groq
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT
        input:
            max-new-tokens: 300
            model: llama3-groq-70b-8192-tool-use-preview
            prompt: |-
                Rewrite this experience using the STAR (Situation, Task, Action, Result) method for a resume or CV:

                ${variable.experience}
            system-message: You are a helpful resume assistant.
            temperature: 0.05
            top-k: 10
            top-p: 0.5
            user: instill-ai
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    experience:
        title: experience
        description: describe your work experience
        instill-format: string
        instill-ui-multiline: true
output:
    resume_format:
        title: resume_format
        value: ${groq-0.output.text}
```
