data/artifact/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Artifact"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Artifact component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Artifact component is a data component that allows users to manipulate and smart search files and data in the artifact store.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Upload Files](#upload-files)
- [Get Files Metadata](#get-files-metadata)
- [Get Chunks Metadata](#get-chunks-metadata)
- [Get File In Markdown](#get-file-in-markdown)
- [Match File Status](#match-file-status)
- [Search Chunks](#search-chunks)
- [Query](#query)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/artifact/v0/config/definition.json).





## Supported Tasks

### Upload Files

Upload and process the files into chunks into Catalog


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPLOAD_FILES` |
| Option (required) | `option` | object | Choose to upload the files to existing catalog or create a new catalog |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Files | `files` | array[object] | Result of uploading files into catalog |






### Get Files Metadata

get the metadata of the files in the catalog


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET_FILES_METADATA` |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to search files in the Catalog |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Files | `files` | array[object] | Files metadata in catalog |






### Get Chunks Metadata

get the metadata of the chunks from a file in the catalog


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET_CHUNKS_METADATA` |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to search files in the Catalog |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| File UID | `file-uid` | string | The unique identifier of the file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Chunks | `chunks` | array[object] | Chunks metadata of the file in catalog |






### Get File In Markdown

get the file content in markdown format


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET_FILE_IN_MARKDOWN` |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to search files in the Catalog |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| File UID | `file-uid` | string | The unique identifier of the file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| File Texts (optional) | `file-texts` | array[object] | File content in markdown format |






### Match File Status

Check if the specified file's processing status is done


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_MATCH_FILE_STATUS` |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to check files' processing status in the Catalog |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| File UID (required) | `file-uid` | string | The unique identifier of the file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `succeeded` | boolean | The status of the file processing, if succeeded, return true |






### Search Chunks

search the chunks in the catalog


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SEARCH_CHUNKS` |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to search files in the Catalog |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| Text Prompt (required) | `text-prompt` | string | The prompt string to search the chunks |
| Top K | `top-k` | integer | The number of top chunks to return |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Chunks | `chunks` | array[object] | Chunks data from smart search |






### Query

Reply the questions based on the files in the catalog


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_QUERY` |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to search files in the Catalog |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| Question (required) | `question` | string | The question to reply |
| Top K | `top-k` | integer | The number of top answers to return |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Answer | `answer` | string | Answers data from smart search |
| Chunks (optional) | `chunks` | array[object] | Chunks data to answer question |

Commit message:

feat(artifact): add artifact component (#275)
Because

- we want users to be able to use catalog from VDP

This commit

- add artifact component

data/artifact/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Artifact"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Artifact component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Artifact component is a data component that allows users to manipulate and smart search files and data in the artifact store.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Upload File](#upload-file)
- [Get Files Metadata](#get-files-metadata)
- [Get Chunks Metadata](#get-chunks-metadata)
- [Get File In Markdown](#get-file-in-markdown)
- [Match File Status](#match-file-status)
- [Search Chunks](#search-chunks)
- [Query](#query)

To use Artifact Component, you will need to set up the OpenAI API key. 
You can do this by setting the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable.
Please refer to [configuring-the-embedding-feature](https://www.instill.tech/docs/core/configuration#configuring-the-embedding-feature)

## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/artifact/v0/config/definition.json).





## Supported Tasks

### Upload File

Upload and process the files into chunks into Catalog


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPLOAD_FILE` |
| Options (required) | `options` | object | Choose to upload the files to existing catalog or create a new catalog |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| File | `file` | object | Result of uploading files into catalog |
| Status | `status` | boolean | The status of trigger file processing, if succeeded, return true |






### Get Files Metadata

get the metadata of the files in the catalog


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET_FILES_METADATA` |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to search files in the Catalog |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Files | `files` | array[object] | Files metadata in catalog |






### Get Chunks Metadata

get the metadata of the chunks from a file in the catalog


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET_CHUNKS_METADATA` |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to search files in the Catalog |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| File UID (required) | `file-uid` | string | The unique identifier of the file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Chunks | `chunks` | array[object] | Chunks metadata of the file in catalog |






### Get File In Markdown

get the file content in markdown format


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET_FILE_IN_MARKDOWN` |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to search files in the Catalog |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| File UID (required) | `file-uid` | string | The unique identifier of the file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| File UID | `original-file-uid` | string | The unique identifier of the file |
| Content | `content` | string | The content of the file in markdown format |
| Create Time | `create-time` | string | TThe creation time of the source file in ISO 8601 format |
| Update Time | `update-time` | string | The update time of the source file in ISO 8601 format |






### Match File Status

Check if the specified file's processing status is done


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_MATCH_FILE_STATUS` |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to check files' processing status in the Catalog |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| File UID (required) | `file-uid` | string | The unique identifier of the file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `succeeded` | boolean | The status of the file processing, if succeeded, return true |






### Search Chunks

search the chunks in the catalog


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SEARCH_CHUNKS` |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to search files in the Catalog |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| Text Prompt (required) | `text-prompt` | string | The prompt string to search the chunks |
| Top K | `top-k` | integer | The number of top chunks to return. The range is from 1~20, and default is 5 |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Chunks | `chunks` | array[object] | Chunks data from smart search |






### Query

Reply the questions based on the files in the catalog


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_QUERY` |
| Catalog ID (required) | `catalog-id` | string | Catalog ID that you input to search files in the Catalog |
| Namespace (required) | `namespace` | string | Fill in your namespace, you can get namespace through the tab of switching namespace |
| Question (required) | `question` | string | The question to reply |
| Top K | `top-k` | integer | The number of top answers to return. The range is from 1~20, and default is 5 |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Answer | `answer` | string | Answers data from smart search |
| Chunks (optional) | `chunks` | array[object] | Chunks data to answer question |
