data/weaviate/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Weaviate"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Weaviate component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Weaviate component is a data component that allows users to build and search vector datasets.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Vector Search](#vector-search)
- [Batch Insert](#batch-insert)
- [Insert](#insert)
- [Delete](#delete)
- [Delete Collection](#delete-collection)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/weaviate/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Weaviate AI API key. Please refer to clusters in Weaviate Console |
| Weaviate URL Endpoint (required) | `url` | string | Fill in your Weaviate base URL without https:// or http://. Please refer to clusters in Weaviate Console |




## Supported Tasks

### Vector Search

Perform a vector search on a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_VECTOR_SEARCH` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to perform vector search on |
| Vector (required) | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector query |
| Limit | `limit` | integer | The limit of objects, empty for all objects |
| Fields | `fields` | array[string] | The fields to return in the objects. If empty then all fields will be returned |
| Filter | `filter` | object | The properties filter to be applied to the data with GraphQL queries, which starts with WHERE field, please refer to https://weaviate.io/developers/weaviate/search/filters |
| With Additional | `with-additional` | boolean | Whether to include the additional field in the results |
| Tenant | `tenant` | string | The tenant to perform the vector search on |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | object | Result of the vector search operation |
| Status | `status` | string | Upsert status |






### Batch Insert

Insert multiple vector objects into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_BATCH_INSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the object into |
| Array Properties (required) | `array-metadata` | array[object] | The array of vector metadata properties |
| Array Vector (required) | `array-vector` | array[array] | The array of vector values |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Batch insert status |






### Insert

Insert a vector object into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_INSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the object into |
| Vector (required) | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector value |
| Metadata (required) | `metadata` | object | The vector metadata properties |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Upsert status |






### Delete

Delete vector objects from a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to delete the object from |
| Filter (required) | `filter` | object | The properties filter to be applied to the data with GraphQL queries, which starts with WHERE field, please refer to https://weaviate.io/developers/weaviate/search/filters |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete status |






### Delete Collection

Delete a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE_COLLECTION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to delete |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete collection status |

Commit message:

chore: vector to be optional for read all objects

data/weaviate/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Weaviate"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Weaviate component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Weaviate component is a data component that allows users to build and search vector datasets.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Vector Search](#vector-search)
- [Batch Insert](#batch-insert)
- [Insert](#insert)
- [Delete](#delete)
- [Delete Collection](#delete-collection)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/weaviate/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Weaviate AI API key. Please refer to clusters in Weaviate Console |
| Weaviate URL Endpoint (required) | `url` | string | Fill in your Weaviate base URL without https:// or http://. Please refer to clusters in Weaviate Console |




## Supported Tasks

### Vector Search

Perform a vector search on a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_VECTOR_SEARCH` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to perform vector search on |
| Vector | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector query, optional. If not provided, all objects will be returned |
| Limit | `limit` | integer | The limit of objects, empty for all objects |
| Fields | `fields` | array[string] | The fields to return in the objects. If empty then all fields will be returned |
| Filter | `filter` | object | The properties filter to be applied to the data with GraphQL queries, which starts with WHERE field, please refer to https://weaviate.io/developers/weaviate/search/filters |
| With Additional | `with-additional` | boolean | Whether to include the additional field in the results |
| Tenant | `tenant` | string | The tenant to perform the vector search on |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | object | Result of the vector search operation |
| Status | `status` | string | Upsert status |






### Batch Insert

Insert multiple vector objects into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_BATCH_INSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the object into |
| Array Metadata (required) | `array-metadata` | array[object] | The array of vector metadata properties |
| Array Vector (required) | `array-vector` | array[array] | The array of vector values |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Batch insert status |






### Insert

Insert a vector object into a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_INSERT` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to upsert the object into |
| Vector (required) | `vector` | array[number] | An array of dimensions for the vector value |
| Metadata (required) | `metadata` | object | The vector metadata properties |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Upsert status |






### Delete

Delete vector objects from a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to delete the object from |
| Filter (required) | `filter` | object | The properties filter to be applied to the data with GraphQL queries, which starts with WHERE field, please refer to https://weaviate.io/developers/weaviate/search/filters |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete status |






### Delete Collection

Delete a collection


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE_COLLECTION` |
| Collection Name (required) | `collection-name` | string | The name of the collection to delete |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete collection status |
