pkg/connector/slack/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Slack"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Slack connector https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Slack component is a application connector that allows users to get and send message on Slack.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Read Message](#read-message)
- [Send Message](#send-message)

## Release Stage

`Alpha`

## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/pkg/connector/slack/v0/config/definition.json).

## Connection

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| token | `token` | string | Fill your token |

## Supported Tasks

### Read Message

Get the latest message since specific date

| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_READ_MESSAGE` |
| Channel Name (required) | `channel_name` | string | A channel name display in Slack |
| Start to read date | `start_to_read_date` | string | earliest date in all read messages |
| Public channel | `is_public_channel` | boolean | Whether all members can read the channel |

| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Conversations | `conversations` | array[object] | An array of conversations with thread messages |

### Send Message

send message to a specific channel

| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_WRITE_MESSAGE` |
| Channel Name (required) | `channel_name` | string | A channel name display in Slack |
| Message (required) | `message` | string | message to be sent to the target channel |
| Public channel | `is_public_channel` | boolean | Whether all members can read the channel |

| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | string | result for sending message |

Commit message:

chore: update document to lead the users to get Slack token (#137)
Because

- Slack token document is unclear for users

This commit

- Add the instruction.
- Note: please check the reference in
[Linear](https://linear.app/instill-ai/issue/INS-4686/improve-slack-document#comment-85d32dd7)

pkg/connector/slack/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Slack"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Slack connector https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Slack component is a application connector that allows users to get and send message on Slack.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Read Message](#read-message)
- [Send Message](#send-message)

## Release Stage

`Alpha`

## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/pkg/connector/slack/v0/config/definition.json).

## Connection

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Token (required) | `token` | string | Fill in your Slack app access token. For more information about how to access to create app tokens, please refer to the Slack API documentation. |

## Supported Tasks

### Read Message

Get the latest message since specific date

| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_READ_MESSAGE` |
| Channel Name (required) | `channel_name` | string | A channel name display in Slack |
| Start to read date | `start_to_read_date` | string | earliest date in all read messages |
| Public channel | `is_public_channel` | boolean | Whether all members can read the channel |

| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Conversations | `conversations` | array[object] | An array of conversations with thread messages |

### Send Message

send message to a specific channel

| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_WRITE_MESSAGE` |
| Channel Name (required) | `channel_name` | string | A channel name display in Slack |
| Message (required) | `message` | string | message to be sent to the target channel |
| Public channel | `is_public_channel` | boolean | Whether all members can read the channel |

| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Result | `result` | string | result for sending message |
