ai/huggingface/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Hugging Face"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Hugging Face component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Hugging Face component is an AI component that allows users to connect the AI models served on the Hugging Face Platform.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Text Generation](#text-generation)
- [Fill Mask](#fill-mask)
- [Summarization](#summarization)
- [Text Classification](#text-classification)
- [Token Classification](#token-classification)
- [Translation](#translation)
- [Zero Shot Classification](#zero-shot-classification)
- [Question Answering](#question-answering)
- [Table Question Answering](#table-question-answering)
- [Sentence Similarity](#sentence-similarity)
- [Conversational](#conversational)
- [Image Classification](#image-classification)
- [Image Segmentation](#image-segmentation)
- [Object Detection](#object-detection)
- [Image To Text](#image-to-text)
- [Speech Recognition](#speech-recognition)
- [Audio Classification](#audio-classification)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/ai/huggingface/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Hugging face API token. To find your token, visit <a href="https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens">here</a> |
| Base URL (required) | `base-url` | string | Hostname for the endpoint. To use Inference API set to <a href="https://api-inference.huggingface.co">here</a>, for Inference Endpoint set to your custom endpoint. |
| Is Custom Endpoint (required) | `is-custom-endpoint` | boolean | Fill true if you are using a custom Inference Endpoint and not the Inference API. |




## Supported Tasks

### Text Generation

Generating text is the task of producing new text. These models can, for example, fill in incomplete text or paraphrase.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_GENERATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Parameters | `parameters` | object | Parameters |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Generated Text | `generated-text` | string | The continuated string |






### Fill Mask

Masked language modeling is the task of masking some of the words in a sentence and predicting which words should replace those masks.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_FILL_MASK` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | a string to be filled from, must contain the [MASK] token (check model card for exact name of the mask) |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Results | `results` | array[object] | Results |






### Summarization

Summarization is the task of producing a shorter version of a document while preserving its important information.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SUMMARIZATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Parameters | `parameters` | object | Parameters |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Summary Text | `summary-text` | string | The string after summarization |






### Text Classification

Text Classification is the task of assigning a label or class to a given text.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_CLASSIFICATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Results | `results` | array[object] | Results |






### Token Classification

Token classification is a natural language understanding task in which a label is assigned to some tokens in a text.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TOKEN_CLASSIFICATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Parameters | `parameters` | object | Parameters |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Results | `results` | array[object] | Results |






### Translation

Translation is the task of converting text from one language to another.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TRANSLATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Translation Text | `translation-text` | string | The string after translation |






### Zero Shot Classification

Zero-shot text classification is a task in natural language processing where a model is trained on a set of labeled examples but is then able to classify new examples from previously unseen classes.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_ZERO_SHOT_CLASSIFICATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Parameters | `parameters` | object | Parameters |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Scores | `scores` | array[number] | a list of floats that correspond the the probability of label, in the same order as labels. |
| Labels | `labels` | array[string] | The list of strings for labels that you sent (in order) |
| Sequence (optional) | `sequence` | string | The string sent as an input |






### Question Answering

Question Answering models can retrieve the answer to a question from a given text, which is useful for searching for an answer in a document.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_QUESTION_ANSWERING` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Inputs (required) | `inputs` | object | Inputs |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Answer | `answer` | string | A string that’s the answer within the text. |
| Stop (optional) | `stop` | integer | The index (string wise) of the stop of the answer within context. |
| Score (optional) | `score` | number | A float that represents how likely that the answer is correct |
| Start (optional) | `start` | integer | The index (string wise) of the start of the answer within context. |






### Table Question Answering

Table Question Answering (Table QA) is the answering a question about an information on a given table.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TABLE_QUESTION_ANSWERING` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Inputs (required) | `inputs` | object | Inputs |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Aggregator (optional) | `aggregator` | string | The aggregator used to get the answer |
| Answer | `answer` | string | The plaintext answer |
| Cells (optional) | `cells` | array[string] | a list of coordinates of the cells contents |
| Coordinates (optional) | `coordinates` | array[array] | a list of coordinates of the cells referenced in the answer |






### Sentence Similarity

Sentence Similarity is the task of determining how similar two texts are.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SENTENCE_SIMILARITY` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Inputs (required) | `inputs` | object | Inputs |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Scores | `scores` | array[number] | The associated similarity score for each of the given strings |






### Conversational

Conversational response modelling is the task of generating conversational text that is relevant, coherent and knowledgable given a prompt.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CONVERSATIONAL` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Inputs (required) | `inputs` | object | Inputs |
| Parameters | `parameters` | object | Parameters |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Conversation (optional) | `conversation` | object | A facility dictionnary to send back for the next input (with the new user input addition). |
| Generated Text | `generated-text` | string | The answer of the bot |






### Image Classification

Image classification is the task of assigning a label or class to an entire image.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_IMAGE_CLASSIFICATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Image (required) | `image` | string | The image file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Classes | `classes` | array[object] | Classes |






### Image Segmentation

Image Segmentation divides an image into segments where each pixel in the image is mapped to an object.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_IMAGE_SEGMENTATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Image (required) | `image` | string | The image file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Segments | `segments` | array[object] | Segments |






### Object Detection

Object Detection models allow users to identify objects of certain defined classes.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_OBJECT_DETECTION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Image (required) | `image` | string | The image file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Objects | `objects` | array[object] | Objects |






### Image To Text

Image to text models output a text from a given image.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_IMAGE_TO_TEXT` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Image (required) | `image` | string | The image file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Text | `text` | string | Generated text |






### Speech Recognition

Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), also known as Speech to Text (STT), is the task of transcribing a given audio to text.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SPEECH_RECOGNITION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Audio (required) | `audio` | string | The audio file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Text | `text` | string | The string that was recognized within the audio file. |






### Audio Classification

Audio classification is the task of assigning a label or class to a given audio.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_AUDIO_CLASSIFICATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Audio (required) | `audio` | string | The audio file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Classes | `classes` | array[object] | Classes |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

ai/huggingface/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Hugging Face"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Hugging Face component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Hugging Face component is an AI component that allows users to connect the AI models served on the Hugging Face Platform.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Text Generation](#text-generation)
- [Fill Mask](#fill-mask)
- [Summarization](#summarization)
- [Text Classification](#text-classification)
- [Token Classification](#token-classification)
- [Translation](#translation)
- [Zero Shot Classification](#zero-shot-classification)
- [Question Answering](#question-answering)
- [Table Question Answering](#table-question-answering)
- [Sentence Similarity](#sentence-similarity)
- [Conversational](#conversational)
- [Image Classification](#image-classification)
- [Image Segmentation](#image-segmentation)
- [Object Detection](#object-detection)
- [Image To Text](#image-to-text)
- [Speech Recognition](#speech-recognition)
- [Audio Classification](#audio-classification)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/ai/huggingface/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Hugging Face, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key (required) | `api-key` | string | Fill in your Hugging face API token. To find your token, visit <a href="https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens">here</a> |
| Base URL (required) | `base-url` | string | Hostname for the endpoint. To use Inference API set to <a href="https://api-inference.huggingface.co">here</a>, for Inference Endpoint set to your custom endpoint. |
| Is Custom Endpoint (required) | `is-custom-endpoint` | boolean | Fill true if you are using a custom Inference Endpoint and not the Inference API. |




## Supported Tasks

### Text Generation

Generating text is the task of producing new text. These models can, for example, fill in incomplete text or paraphrase.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_GENERATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Parameters | `parameters` | object | Parameters |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Generated Text | `generated-text` | string | The continuated string |






### Fill Mask

Masked language modeling is the task of masking some of the words in a sentence and predicting which words should replace those masks.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_FILL_MASK` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | a string to be filled from, must contain the [MASK] token (check model card for exact name of the mask) |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Results | `results` | array[object] | Results |






### Summarization

Summarization is the task of producing a shorter version of a document while preserving its important information.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SUMMARIZATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Parameters | `parameters` | object | Parameters |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Summary Text | `summary-text` | string | The string after summarization |






### Text Classification

Text Classification is the task of assigning a label or class to a given text.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_CLASSIFICATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Results | `results` | array[object] | Results |






### Token Classification

Token classification is a natural language understanding task in which a label is assigned to some tokens in a text.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TOKEN_CLASSIFICATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Parameters | `parameters` | object | Parameters |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Results | `results` | array[object] | Results |






### Translation

Translation is the task of converting text from one language to another.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TRANSLATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Translation Text | `translation-text` | string | The string after translation |






### Zero Shot Classification

Zero-shot text classification is a task in natural language processing where a model is trained on a set of labeled examples but is then able to classify new examples from previously unseen classes.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_ZERO_SHOT_CLASSIFICATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| String Input (required) | `inputs` | string | String input |
| Parameters | `parameters` | object | Parameters |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Scores | `scores` | array[number] | a list of floats that correspond the the probability of label, in the same order as labels. |
| Labels | `labels` | array[string] | The list of strings for labels that you sent (in order) |
| Sequence (optional) | `sequence` | string | The string sent as an input |






### Question Answering

Question Answering models can retrieve the answer to a question from a given text, which is useful for searching for an answer in a document.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_QUESTION_ANSWERING` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Inputs (required) | `inputs` | object | Inputs |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Answer | `answer` | string | A string that’s the answer within the text. |
| Stop (optional) | `stop` | integer | The index (string wise) of the stop of the answer within context. |
| Score (optional) | `score` | number | A float that represents how likely that the answer is correct |
| Start (optional) | `start` | integer | The index (string wise) of the start of the answer within context. |






### Table Question Answering

Table Question Answering (Table QA) is the answering a question about an information on a given table.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TABLE_QUESTION_ANSWERING` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Inputs (required) | `inputs` | object | Inputs |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Aggregator (optional) | `aggregator` | string | The aggregator used to get the answer |
| Answer | `answer` | string | The plaintext answer |
| Cells (optional) | `cells` | array[string] | a list of coordinates of the cells contents |
| Coordinates (optional) | `coordinates` | array[array] | a list of coordinates of the cells referenced in the answer |






### Sentence Similarity

Sentence Similarity is the task of determining how similar two texts are.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SENTENCE_SIMILARITY` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Inputs (required) | `inputs` | object | Inputs |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Scores | `scores` | array[number] | The associated similarity score for each of the given strings |






### Conversational

Conversational response modelling is the task of generating conversational text that is relevant, coherent and knowledgable given a prompt.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CONVERSATIONAL` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Inputs (required) | `inputs` | object | Inputs |
| Parameters | `parameters` | object | Parameters |
| Options | `options` | object | Options for the model |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Conversation (optional) | `conversation` | object | A facility dictionnary to send back for the next input (with the new user input addition). |
| Generated Text | `generated-text` | string | The answer of the bot |






### Image Classification

Image classification is the task of assigning a label or class to an entire image.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_IMAGE_CLASSIFICATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Image (required) | `image` | string | The image file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Classes | `classes` | array[object] | Classes |






### Image Segmentation

Image Segmentation divides an image into segments where each pixel in the image is mapped to an object.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_IMAGE_SEGMENTATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Image (required) | `image` | string | The image file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Segments | `segments` | array[object] | Segments |






### Object Detection

Object Detection models allow users to identify objects of certain defined classes.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_OBJECT_DETECTION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Image (required) | `image` | string | The image file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Objects | `objects` | array[object] | Objects |






### Image To Text

Image to text models output a text from a given image.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_IMAGE_TO_TEXT` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Image (required) | `image` | string | The image file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Text | `text` | string | Generated text |






### Speech Recognition

Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), also known as Speech to Text (STT), is the task of transcribing a given audio to text.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SPEECH_RECOGNITION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Audio (required) | `audio` | string | The audio file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Text | `text` | string | The string that was recognized within the audio file. |






### Audio Classification

Audio classification is the task of assigning a label or class to a given audio.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_AUDIO_CLASSIFICATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The Hugging Face model to be used |
| Audio (required) | `audio` | string | The audio file |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Classes | `classes` | array[object] | Classes |
