application/jira/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Jira"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Jira component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Jira component is an application component that allows users to do anything available on Jira.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [List Boards](#list-boards)
- [List Issues](#list-issues)
- [List Sprints](#list-sprints)
- [Get Issue](#get-issue)
- [Get Sprint](#get-sprint)
- [Create Issue](#create-issue)
- [Update Issue](#update-issue)
- [Create Sprint](#create-sprint)
- [Update Sprint](#update-sprint)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/jira/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Token (required) | `token` | string | Fill in your Jira API token. You can generate one from your Jira account "settings > security > API tokens". |
| Base URL (required) | `base-url` | string | Fill in your Jira base URL. For example, if your Jira URL is "https://mycompany.atlassian.net/...", then your base URL is https://mycompany.atlassian.net. |
| Email (required) | `email` | string | Fill in your Jira email address. |




## Supported Tasks

### List Boards

List all boards in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_LIST_BOARDS` |
| Project Key or ID | `project-key-or-id` | string | This filters results to boards that are relevant to a project. Relevance meaning that the JQL filter defined in board contains a reference to a project. |
| Board Type | `board-type` | string | The type of board, can be: scrum, kanban, simple. Default is simple |
| Name | `name` | string | Name filters results to boards that match or partially match the specified name. Default is empty |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0. Default is 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards to return. Default is 50 |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Boards (optional) | `boards` | array[object] | A array of boards in Jira |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards |
| Total | `total` | integer | The total number of boards |
| Is Last | `is-last` | boolean | Whether the last board is reached |






### List Issues

List issues in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_LIST_ISSUES` |
| Board Name (required) | `board-name` | string | The name of the board |
| Range | `range` | object | Choose the range of issues to return. Default is `all` |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0. Default is 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards to return. Default is 50 |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Issues (optional) | `issues` | array[object] | A array of issues in Jira |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards |
| Total | `total` | integer | The total number of boards |






### List Sprints

List sprints in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_LIST_SPRINTS` |
| Board ID (required) | `board-id` | integer | The ID of the board |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0. Default is 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards to return. Default is 50 |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Sprints (optional) | `sprints` | array[object] | A array of sprints in Jira |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards |
| Total | `total` | integer | The total number of boards |






### Get Issue

Get an issue in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET_ISSUE` |
| Issue Key (required) | `issue-key` | string | The key of the issue, e.g. `JRA-1330` |
| Update History | `update-history` | boolean | Whether the action taken is added to the user's Recent history, as shown under `Your Work` in Jira. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID | `id` | string | The ID of the issue |
| Key | `key` | string | The key of the issue, e.g. `JRA-1330` |
| Self | `self` | string | The URL of the issue |
| Fields | `fields` | object | The fields of the issue. All navigable and Agile fields are returned |
| Issue Type (optional) | `issue-type` | string | The type of the issue, can be: `Task`, `Epic` |
| Summary (optional) | `summary` | string | The summary of the issue |
| Description (optional) | `description` | string | The description of the issue |
| Status (optional) | `status` | string | The status of the issue, can be: `To Do`, `In Progress`, `Done` |






### Get Sprint

Get a sprint in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET_SPRINT` |
| Sprint ID (required) | `sprint-id` | integer | The ID of the sprint. The sprint will only be returned if you can view the board that the sprint was created on, or view at least one of the issues in the sprint. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID (optional) | `id` | integer | The ID of the sprint |
| Self (optional) | `self` | string | The URL of the sprint |
| State (optional) | `state` | string | The state of the sprint, can be: `active`, `closed`, `future` |
| Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the sprint |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-date` | string | The start date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| End Date (optional) | `end-date` | string | The end date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Complete Date (optional) | `complete-date` | string | The complete date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Origin Board ID (optional) | `origin-board-id` | integer | The ID of the origin board |
| Goal (optional) | `goal` | string | The Goal of the sprint |






### Create Issue

Create an issue in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_ISSUE` |
| Project Key (required) | `project-key` | string | The key of the project, e.g. `INS` |
| Issue Type (required) | `issue-type` | object | The type of the issue, can be: `Task`, `Epic`, `Subtask`, etc. |
| Summary | `summary` | string | The summary of the issue |
| Description | `description` | string | The description of the issue |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID | `id` | string | The ID of the issue |
| Key | `key` | string | The key of the issue, e.g. `JRA-1330` |
| Self | `self` | string | The URL of the issue |
| Fields | `fields` | object | The fields of the issue. All navigable and Agile fields are returned |
| Issue Type (optional) | `issue-type` | string | The type of the issue, can be: `Task`, `Epic` |
| Summary (optional) | `summary` | string | The summary of the issue |
| Description (optional) | `description` | string | The description of the issue |
| Status (optional) | `status` | string | The status of the issue, can be: `To Do`, `In Progress`, `Done` |






### Update Issue

Update an issue in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPDATE_ISSUE` |
| Issue Key (required) | `issue-key` | string | The key of the issue, e.g. `JRA-1330` |
| Notify Users | `notify-users` | boolean | Whether to notify users |
| Update | `update` | object | Update an issue in Jira |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID | `id` | string | The ID of the issue |
| Key | `key` | string | The key of the issue, e.g. `JRA-1330` |
| Self | `self` | string | The URL of the issue |
| Fields | `fields` | object | The fields of the issue. All navigable and Agile fields are returned |
| Issue Type (optional) | `issue-type` | string | The type of the issue, can be: `Task`, `Epic` |
| Summary (optional) | `summary` | string | The summary of the issue |
| Description (optional) | `description` | string | The description of the issue |
| Status (optional) | `status` | string | The status of the issue, can be: `To Do`, `In Progress`, `Done` |






### Create Sprint

Create a sprint in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_SPRINT` |
| Board Name (required) | `board-name` | string | The name of the board |
| Name (required) | `name` | string | The name of the sprint |
| Goal (required) | `goal` | string | The goal of the sprint |
| Start Date (required) | `start-date` | string | The start date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| End Date (required) | `end-date` | string | The end date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID | `id` | integer | The ID of the sprint |
| Self | `self` | string | The URL of the sprint |
| State (optional) | `state` | string | The state of the sprint, can be: `active`, `closed`, `future` |
| Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the sprint |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-date` | string | The start date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| End Date (optional) | `end-date` | string | The end date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Complete Date (optional) | `complete-date` | string | The complete date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Origin Board ID (optional) | `origin-board-id` | integer | The ID of the origin board |
| Goal (optional) | `goal` | string | The Goal of the sprint |






### Update Sprint

Update a sprint in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPDATE_SPRINT` |
| Sprint ID (required) | `sprint-id` | integer | The ID of the sprint |
| Name (required) | `name` | string | The name of the sprint |
| Goal | `goal` | string | The goal of the sprint |
| Start Date (required) | `start-date` | string | The start date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| End Date (required) | `end-date` | string | The end date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Current State (required) | `current-state` | string | The current state of the sprint, can be: `future`, `active`, `closed` |
| Enter Next State | `enter-next-state` | boolean | Whether to enter the next state. If `true`, the sprint will enter the next state, i.e., `future` -> `active` -> `closed` |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID | `id` | integer | The ID of the sprint |
| Self | `self` | string | The URL of the sprint |
| State (optional) | `state` | string | The state of the sprint, can be: `active`, `closed`, `future` |
| Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the sprint |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-date` | string | The start date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| End Date (optional) | `end-date` | string | The end date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Complete Date (optional) | `complete-date` | string | The complete date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Origin Board ID (optional) | `origin-board-id` | integer | The ID of the origin board |
| Goal (optional) | `goal` | string | The Goal of the sprint |






## Example Recipes

Recipe for the [Your Project Management Assistant ](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/pm-assistant/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    jira-0:
        type: jira
        task: TASK_LIST_ISSUES
        input:
            board-name: ${variable.board-name}
            max-results: 50
            range:
                range: All
            start-at: 0
        setup:
            base-url: ${variable.base-url}
            email: ${variable.jira-email}
            token: ${secret.jira}
    openai-0:
        type: openai
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION
        input:
            model: gpt-4o-mini
            "n": 1
            prompt: |-
                From this list of issues:
                ${jira-0.output.issues}


                Summarise the next action items and reference the relevant issues.

                Category:
                [list of relevant issues]
            response-format:
                type: text
            system-message: |-
                You are an expert project manager. Classify the issues into one of the following categories: ["feature", "bug", "refactor", "cancelled"]

                If anything is a breaking change, make it a top priority.
            temperature: 1
            top-p: 1
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    base-url:
        title: Jira Base URL
        description: |+
            Your Jira base URL i.e. https://<_YOUR_COMPANY_>.atlassian.net

        instill-format: string
    board-name:
        title: Jira Board Name
        description: |+
            The name of your Jira board i.e. "KANBAN board".

        instill-format: string
    jira-email:
        title: Jira Email
        description: The email you are using for Jira i.e. hello@world.com
        instill-format: string
output:
    output:
        title: Output
        value: ${openai-0.output.texts}
```

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

application/jira/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Jira"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Jira component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Jira component is an application component that allows users to do anything available on Jira.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [List Boards](#list-boards)
- [List Issues](#list-issues)
- [List Sprints](#list-sprints)
- [Get Issue](#get-issue)
- [Get Sprint](#get-sprint)
- [Create Issue](#create-issue)
- [Update Issue](#update-issue)
- [Create Sprint](#create-sprint)
- [Update Sprint](#update-sprint)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/jira/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Atlassian, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Token (required) | `token` | string | Fill in your Jira API token. You can generate one from your Jira account "settings > security > API tokens". |
| Base URL (required) | `base-url` | string | Fill in your Jira base URL. For example, if your Jira URL is "https://mycompany.atlassian.net/...", then your base URL is https://mycompany.atlassian.net. |
| Email (required) | `email` | string | Fill in your Jira email address. |




## Supported Tasks

### List Boards

List all boards in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_LIST_BOARDS` |
| Project Key or ID | `project-key-or-id` | string | This filters results to boards that are relevant to a project. Relevance meaning that the JQL filter defined in board contains a reference to a project. |
| Board Type | `board-type` | string | The type of board, can be: scrum, kanban, simple. Default is simple |
| Name | `name` | string | Name filters results to boards that match or partially match the specified name. Default is empty |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0. Default is 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards to return. Default is 50 |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Boards (optional) | `boards` | array[object] | A array of boards in Jira |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards |
| Total | `total` | integer | The total number of boards |
| Is Last | `is-last` | boolean | Whether the last board is reached |






### List Issues

List issues in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_LIST_ISSUES` |
| Board Name (required) | `board-name` | string | The name of the board |
| Range | `range` | object | Choose the range of issues to return. Default is `all` |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0. Default is 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards to return. Default is 50 |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Issues (optional) | `issues` | array[object] | A array of issues in Jira |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards |
| Total | `total` | integer | The total number of boards |






### List Sprints

List sprints in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_LIST_SPRINTS` |
| Board ID (required) | `board-id` | integer | The ID of the board |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0. Default is 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards to return. Default is 50 |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Sprints (optional) | `sprints` | array[object] | A array of sprints in Jira |
| Start At | `start-at` | integer | The starting index of the returned boards. Base index: 0 |
| Max Results | `max-results` | integer | The maximum number of boards |
| Total | `total` | integer | The total number of boards |






### Get Issue

Get an issue in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET_ISSUE` |
| Issue Key (required) | `issue-key` | string | The key of the issue, e.g. `JRA-1330` |
| Update History | `update-history` | boolean | Whether the action taken is added to the user's Recent history, as shown under `Your Work` in Jira. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID | `id` | string | The ID of the issue |
| Key | `key` | string | The key of the issue, e.g. `JRA-1330` |
| Self | `self` | string | The URL of the issue |
| Fields | `fields` | object | The fields of the issue. All navigable and Agile fields are returned |
| Issue Type (optional) | `issue-type` | string | The type of the issue, can be: `Task`, `Epic` |
| Summary (optional) | `summary` | string | The summary of the issue |
| Description (optional) | `description` | string | The description of the issue |
| Status (optional) | `status` | string | The status of the issue, can be: `To Do`, `In Progress`, `Done` |






### Get Sprint

Get a sprint in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET_SPRINT` |
| Sprint ID (required) | `sprint-id` | integer | The ID of the sprint. The sprint will only be returned if you can view the board that the sprint was created on, or view at least one of the issues in the sprint. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID (optional) | `id` | integer | The ID of the sprint |
| Self (optional) | `self` | string | The URL of the sprint |
| State (optional) | `state` | string | The state of the sprint, can be: `active`, `closed`, `future` |
| Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the sprint |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-date` | string | The start date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| End Date (optional) | `end-date` | string | The end date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Complete Date (optional) | `complete-date` | string | The complete date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Origin Board ID (optional) | `origin-board-id` | integer | The ID of the origin board |
| Goal (optional) | `goal` | string | The Goal of the sprint |






### Create Issue

Create an issue in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_ISSUE` |
| Project Key (required) | `project-key` | string | The key of the project, e.g. `INS` |
| Issue Type (required) | `issue-type` | object | The type of the issue, can be: `Task`, `Epic`, `Subtask`, etc. |
| Summary | `summary` | string | The summary of the issue |
| Description | `description` | string | The description of the issue |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID | `id` | string | The ID of the issue |
| Key | `key` | string | The key of the issue, e.g. `JRA-1330` |
| Self | `self` | string | The URL of the issue |
| Fields | `fields` | object | The fields of the issue. All navigable and Agile fields are returned |
| Issue Type (optional) | `issue-type` | string | The type of the issue, can be: `Task`, `Epic` |
| Summary (optional) | `summary` | string | The summary of the issue |
| Description (optional) | `description` | string | The description of the issue |
| Status (optional) | `status` | string | The status of the issue, can be: `To Do`, `In Progress`, `Done` |






### Update Issue

Update an issue in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPDATE_ISSUE` |
| Issue Key (required) | `issue-key` | string | The key of the issue, e.g. `JRA-1330` |
| Notify Users | `notify-users` | boolean | Whether to notify users |
| Update | `update` | object | Update an issue in Jira |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID | `id` | string | The ID of the issue |
| Key | `key` | string | The key of the issue, e.g. `JRA-1330` |
| Self | `self` | string | The URL of the issue |
| Fields | `fields` | object | The fields of the issue. All navigable and Agile fields are returned |
| Issue Type (optional) | `issue-type` | string | The type of the issue, can be: `Task`, `Epic` |
| Summary (optional) | `summary` | string | The summary of the issue |
| Description (optional) | `description` | string | The description of the issue |
| Status (optional) | `status` | string | The status of the issue, can be: `To Do`, `In Progress`, `Done` |






### Create Sprint

Create a sprint in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_SPRINT` |
| Board Name (required) | `board-name` | string | The name of the board |
| Name (required) | `name` | string | The name of the sprint |
| Goal (required) | `goal` | string | The goal of the sprint |
| Start Date (required) | `start-date` | string | The start date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| End Date (required) | `end-date` | string | The end date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID | `id` | integer | The ID of the sprint |
| Self | `self` | string | The URL of the sprint |
| State (optional) | `state` | string | The state of the sprint, can be: `active`, `closed`, `future` |
| Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the sprint |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-date` | string | The start date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| End Date (optional) | `end-date` | string | The end date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Complete Date (optional) | `complete-date` | string | The complete date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Origin Board ID (optional) | `origin-board-id` | integer | The ID of the origin board |
| Goal (optional) | `goal` | string | The Goal of the sprint |






### Update Sprint

Update a sprint in Jira


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPDATE_SPRINT` |
| Sprint ID (required) | `sprint-id` | integer | The ID of the sprint |
| Name (required) | `name` | string | The name of the sprint |
| Goal | `goal` | string | The goal of the sprint |
| Start Date (required) | `start-date` | string | The start date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| End Date (required) | `end-date` | string | The end date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Current State (required) | `current-state` | string | The current state of the sprint, can be: `future`, `active`, `closed` |
| Enter Next State | `enter-next-state` | boolean | Whether to enter the next state. If `true`, the sprint will enter the next state, i.e., `future` -> `active` -> `closed` |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ID | `id` | integer | The ID of the sprint |
| Self | `self` | string | The URL of the sprint |
| State (optional) | `state` | string | The state of the sprint, can be: `active`, `closed`, `future` |
| Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the sprint |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-date` | string | The start date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| End Date (optional) | `end-date` | string | The end date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Complete Date (optional) | `complete-date` | string | The complete date of the sprint, e.g. 2018-03-05 (default 00:00 UTC+0). To adjust your time zone, please provide a more detailed RFC3339 format like `2018-03-05T09:00:00Z0000` |
| Origin Board ID (optional) | `origin-board-id` | integer | The ID of the origin board |
| Goal (optional) | `goal` | string | The Goal of the sprint |






## Example Recipes

Recipe for the [Your Project Management Assistant ](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/pm-assistant/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    jira-0:
        type: jira
        task: TASK_LIST_ISSUES
        input:
            board-name: ${variable.board-name}
            max-results: 50
            range:
                range: All
            start-at: 0
        setup:
            base-url: ${variable.base-url}
            email: ${variable.jira-email}
            token: ${secret.jira}
    openai-0:
        type: openai
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION
        input:
            model: gpt-4o-mini
            "n": 1
            prompt: |-
                From this list of issues:
                ${jira-0.output.issues}


                Summarise the next action items and reference the relevant issues.

                Category:
                [list of relevant issues]
            response-format:
                type: text
            system-message: |-
                You are an expert project manager. Classify the issues into one of the following categories: ["feature", "bug", "refactor", "cancelled"]

                If anything is a breaking change, make it a top priority.
            temperature: 1
            top-p: 1
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    base-url:
        title: Jira Base URL
        description: |+
            Your Jira base URL i.e. https://<_YOUR_COMPANY_>.atlassian.net

        instill-format: string
    board-name:
        title: Jira Board Name
        description: |+
            The name of your Jira board i.e. "KANBAN board".

        instill-format: string
    jira-email:
        title: Jira Email
        description: The email you are using for Jira i.e. hello@world.com
        instill-format: string
output:
    output:
        title: Output
        value: ${openai-0.output.texts}
```
