application/numbers/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Numbers Protocol"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Numbers Protocol component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Numbers Protocol component is an application component that allows users to seamlessly integrate third-party blockchain services through the Numbers Protocol, providing security, verifiability and traceability to data management.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Register](#register)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/numbers/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Capture token (required) | `capture-token` | string | Fill in your Capture token in the Capture App. To access your tokens, you need a Capture App account and you can sign in with email or wallet to acquire the Capture Token. |




## Supported Tasks

### Register

Register a file into NumbersProtocol Chain.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_REGISTER` |
| Images (required) | `images` | array[string] | The images you want to upload to blockchain. |
| Caption | `caption` | string | Caption of the asset. |
| Asset Creator | `asset-creator` | string | Name of the asset creator. |
| Headline | `headline` | string | Headline of the asset |
| Digital Source Type | `digital-source-type` | string | Specify the type of the source. More details <a href="https://docs.numbersprotocol.io/introduction/numbers-protocol/defining-web3-assets/assettree/digitalsourcetype">here</a> |
| Generated By | `generated-by` | string | The AI model used to generate the content. |
| License | `license` | object | License |
| Mining Preference | `mining-preference` | string | Designates the selection made by the asset creators or licensed owners to decide if the asset is suitable for inclusion in a data mining or AI/ML training workflow. More details <a href="https://docs.numbersprotocol.io/introduction/numbers-protocol/defining-web3-assets/assettree/miningpreference">here</a> |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Asset Urls | `asset-urls` | array[string] | Asset Urls |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

application/numbers/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Numbers Protocol"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Numbers Protocol component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Numbers Protocol component is an application component that allows users to seamlessly integrate third-party blockchain services through the Numbers Protocol, providing security, verifiability and traceability to data management.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Register](#register)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/numbers/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Numbers Protocol, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Capture token (required) | `capture-token` | string | Fill in your Capture token in the Capture App. To access your tokens, you need a Capture App account and you can sign in with email or wallet to acquire the Capture Token. |




## Supported Tasks

### Register

Register a file into NumbersProtocol Chain.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_REGISTER` |
| Images (required) | `images` | array[string] | The images you want to upload to blockchain. |
| Caption | `caption` | string | Caption of the asset. |
| Asset Creator | `asset-creator` | string | Name of the asset creator. |
| Headline | `headline` | string | Headline of the asset |
| Digital Source Type | `digital-source-type` | string | Specify the type of the source. More details <a href="https://docs.numbersprotocol.io/introduction/numbers-protocol/defining-web3-assets/assettree/digitalsourcetype">here</a> |
| Generated By | `generated-by` | string | The AI model used to generate the content. |
| License | `license` | object | License |
| Mining Preference | `mining-preference` | string | Designates the selection made by the asset creators or licensed owners to decide if the asset is suitable for inclusion in a data mining or AI/ML training workflow. More details <a href="https://docs.numbersprotocol.io/introduction/numbers-protocol/defining-web3-assets/assettree/miningpreference">here</a> |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Asset Urls | `asset-urls` | array[string] | Asset Urls |
