application/asana/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Asana"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Asana component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Asana component is an application component that allows users to do anything available on Asana.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Crud Goal](#crud-goal)
- [Crud Task](#crud-task)
- [Crud Project](#crud-project)
- [Crud Portfolio](#crud-portfolio)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/asana/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Token (required) | `token` | string | Fill in your Asana Personal Access Token (PAT). You can generate one from <a href="https://app.asana.com/0/my-apps">developer console</a> |




## Supported Tasks

### Crud Goal

Goal Related Task, including get, update, delete, create, duplicate


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CRUD_GOAL` |
| Action | `action` | object | action |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Goal ID (optional) | `gid` | string | Globally unique identifier (GID) for the goal. |
| Goal Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the goal. |
| Owner (optional) | `owner` | object | The owner of the goal. |
| Goal Note (optional) | `notes` | string | The notes of the goal. |
| Goal HTML Note (optional) | `html-notes` | string | The notes of the goal in HTML format. |
| Due Date (optional) | `due-on` | string | The date on which the goal is due. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-on` | string | The date on which the goal starts. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Liked (optional) | `liked` | boolean | Whether the goal is liked by the user. |
| Likes (optional) | `likes` | array[object] | The users who likes the goal. |






### Crud Task

Task Related Task, including get, update, delete, create, duplicate


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CRUD_TASK` |
| Action | `action` | object | Action |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (optional) | `gid` | string | Globally unique identifier (GID) for the task. |
| Task Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the task. |
| Task Notes (optional) | `notes` | string | The notes of the task. |
| Task Notes in HTML format (optional) | `html-notes` | string | The notes of the task in HTML format. |
| Due Date (optional) | `due-on` | string | The date on which the task is due. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Projects (optional) | `projects` | array[object] | The projects of the task. |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-on` | string | The date on which the task starts. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Liked (optional) | `liked` | boolean | Whether the task is liked by the user. |
| Likes (optional) | `likes` | array[object] | The users who likes the task. |
| Approval Status (optional) | `approval-status` | string | The approval status of the task. If you set completed to true, this field will be set to approved. |
| Resource Subtype (optional) | `resource-subtype` | string | The subtype of this resource. Different subtypes retain many of the same fields and behavior, but may render differently in Asana or represent resources with different semantic meaning. |
| Completed (optional) | `completed` | boolean | Whether the task is currently marked complete. |
| Assignee (optional) | `assignee` | string | GID of the assignee. |
| Parent Task (optional) | `parent` | string | GID of the parent task. |






### Crud Project

Project Related Task, including get, update, delete, create, duplicate


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CRUD_PROJECT` |
| Action | `action` | object | action |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Project ID (optional) | `gid` | string | Globally unique identifier (GID) for the project. |
| Project Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the project. |
| Owner (optional) | `owner` | object | The owner of the project. |
| Project Note (optional) | `notes` | string | The notes of the project. |
| Project HTML Note (optional) | `html-notes` | string | The notes of the project in HTML format. |
| Due Date (optional) | `due-on` | string | The date on which the project is due. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-on` | string | The date on which the project starts. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Completed (optional) | `completed` | boolean | Whether the project is completed. |
| Color (optional) | `color` | string | The color of the project. |
| Privacy Setting (optional) | `privacy-setting` | string | The privacy setting of the project. |
| Archived (optional) | `archived` | boolean | Whether the project is archived. |
| Completed By (optional) | `completed-by` | object | The user who completed the project. |
| Current Status (optional) | `current-status` | object | The current status of the project. |
| Custom Fields (optional) | `custom-fields` | object | The custom fields of the project. |
| Custom Field Settings (optional) | `custom-field-settings` | object | The custom field settings of the project. |
| Modified At (optional) | `modified-at` | string | The time at which the project was last modified. |






### Crud Portfolio

Portfolio Related Task, including get, update, delete, create


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CRUD_PORTFOLIO` |
| Action | `action` | object | action |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Portfolio ID (optional) | `gid` | string | Globally unique identifier (GID) for the portfolio. |
| Portfolio Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the portfolio. |
| Owner (optional) | `owner` | object | The owner of the portfolio. |
| Due Date (optional) | `due-on` | string | The date on which the portfolio is due. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-on` | string | The date on which the portfolio starts. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Color (optional) | `color` | string | The color of the portfolio. |
| Public (optional) | `public` | boolean | Whether the portfolio is public. |
| Created By (optional) | `created-by` | object | The user who created the portfolio. |
| Current Status (optional) | `current-status` | object | The current status of the portfolio. |
| Custom Fields (optional) | `custom-fields` | object | The custom fields of the portfolio. |
| Custom Field Settings (optional) | `custom-field-settings` | object | The custom field settings of the portfolio. |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

application/asana/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Asana"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Asana component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Asana component is an application component that allows users to do anything available on Asana.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Crud Goal](#crud-goal)
- [Crud Task](#crud-task)
- [Crud Project](#crud-project)
- [Crud Portfolio](#crud-portfolio)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/application/asana/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Asana, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Token (required) | `token` | string | Fill in your Asana Personal Access Token (PAT). You can generate one from <a href="https://app.asana.com/0/my-apps">developer console</a> |




## Supported Tasks

### Crud Goal

Goal Related Task, including get, update, delete, create, duplicate


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CRUD_GOAL` |
| Action | `action` | object | action |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Goal ID (optional) | `gid` | string | Globally unique identifier (GID) for the goal. |
| Goal Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the goal. |
| Owner (optional) | `owner` | object | The owner of the goal. |
| Goal Note (optional) | `notes` | string | The notes of the goal. |
| Goal HTML Note (optional) | `html-notes` | string | The notes of the goal in HTML format. |
| Due Date (optional) | `due-on` | string | The date on which the goal is due. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-on` | string | The date on which the goal starts. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Liked (optional) | `liked` | boolean | Whether the goal is liked by the user. |
| Likes (optional) | `likes` | array[object] | The users who likes the goal. |






### Crud Task

Task Related Task, including get, update, delete, create, duplicate


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CRUD_TASK` |
| Action | `action` | object | Action |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (optional) | `gid` | string | Globally unique identifier (GID) for the task. |
| Task Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the task. |
| Task Notes (optional) | `notes` | string | The notes of the task. |
| Task Notes in HTML format (optional) | `html-notes` | string | The notes of the task in HTML format. |
| Due Date (optional) | `due-on` | string | The date on which the task is due. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Projects (optional) | `projects` | array[object] | The projects of the task. |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-on` | string | The date on which the task starts. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Liked (optional) | `liked` | boolean | Whether the task is liked by the user. |
| Likes (optional) | `likes` | array[object] | The users who likes the task. |
| Approval Status (optional) | `approval-status` | string | The approval status of the task. If you set completed to true, this field will be set to approved. |
| Resource Subtype (optional) | `resource-subtype` | string | The subtype of this resource. Different subtypes retain many of the same fields and behavior, but may render differently in Asana or represent resources with different semantic meaning. |
| Completed (optional) | `completed` | boolean | Whether the task is currently marked complete. |
| Assignee (optional) | `assignee` | string | GID of the assignee. |
| Parent Task (optional) | `parent` | string | GID of the parent task. |






### Crud Project

Project Related Task, including get, update, delete, create, duplicate


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CRUD_PROJECT` |
| Action | `action` | object | action |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Project ID (optional) | `gid` | string | Globally unique identifier (GID) for the project. |
| Project Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the project. |
| Owner (optional) | `owner` | object | The owner of the project. |
| Project Note (optional) | `notes` | string | The notes of the project. |
| Project HTML Note (optional) | `html-notes` | string | The notes of the project in HTML format. |
| Due Date (optional) | `due-on` | string | The date on which the project is due. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-on` | string | The date on which the project starts. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Completed (optional) | `completed` | boolean | Whether the project is completed. |
| Color (optional) | `color` | string | The color of the project. |
| Privacy Setting (optional) | `privacy-setting` | string | The privacy setting of the project. |
| Archived (optional) | `archived` | boolean | Whether the project is archived. |
| Completed By (optional) | `completed-by` | object | The user who completed the project. |
| Current Status (optional) | `current-status` | object | The current status of the project. |
| Custom Fields (optional) | `custom-fields` | object | The custom fields of the project. |
| Custom Field Settings (optional) | `custom-field-settings` | object | The custom field settings of the project. |
| Modified At (optional) | `modified-at` | string | The time at which the project was last modified. |






### Crud Portfolio

Portfolio Related Task, including get, update, delete, create


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CRUD_PORTFOLIO` |
| Action | `action` | object | action |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Portfolio ID (optional) | `gid` | string | Globally unique identifier (GID) for the portfolio. |
| Portfolio Name (optional) | `name` | string | The name of the portfolio. |
| Owner (optional) | `owner` | object | The owner of the portfolio. |
| Due Date (optional) | `due-on` | string | The date on which the portfolio is due. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Start Date (optional) | `start-on` | string | The date on which the portfolio starts. In the format YYYY-MM-DD. |
| Color (optional) | `color` | string | The color of the portfolio. |
| Public (optional) | `public` | boolean | Whether the portfolio is public. |
| Created By (optional) | `created-by` | object | The user who created the portfolio. |
| Current Status (optional) | `current-status` | object | The current status of the portfolio. |
| Custom Fields (optional) | `custom-fields` | object | The custom fields of the portfolio. |
| Custom Field Settings (optional) | `custom-field-settings` | object | The custom field settings of the portfolio. |
