operator/web/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Web"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Web component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Web component is an operator component that allows users to scrape websites.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Crawl Website](#crawl-website)
- [Scrape Sitemap](#scrape-sitemap)
- [Scrape Webpage](#scrape-webpage)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/operator/web/v0/config/definition.json).





## Supported Tasks

### Crawl Website

Scrape the website contents.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CRAWL_WEBSITE` |
| Query (required) | `target-url` | string | The root URL to scrape. All links on this page will be scraped, and all links on those pages, and so on. |
| Allowed Domains | `allowed-domains` | array[string] | A list of domains that are allowed to be scraped. If empty, all domains are allowed. |
| Max Number of Pages (required) | `max-k` | integer | The max number of pages to return. If the number is set to 0, all pages will be returned. If the number is set to a positive integer, at most max k pages will be returned. |
| Include Link Text | `include-link-text` | boolean | Indicate whether to scrape the link and include the text of the link associated with this page in the 'link-text' field |
| Include Link HTML | `include-link-html` | boolean | Indicate whether to scrape the link and include the raw HTML of the link associated with this page in the 'link-html' field |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Pages | `pages` | array[object] | The scraped webpages |






### Scrape Sitemap

Scrape the sitemap information


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SCRAPE_SITEMAP` |
| Sitemap URL (required) | `url` | string | The URL of the sitemap to scrape |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| List | `list` | array | The list of information in a sitemap |






### Scrape Webpage

Scrape the webpage contents and manipulate html with jquery command. The sequence of jquery commands will be executed in the order of only-main-content, remove-tags, and only-include-tags.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SCRAPE_WEBPAGE` |
| URL (required) | `url` | string | The URL to be scrape the webpage contents |
| Include HTML | `include-html` | boolean | Indicate whether to include the raw HTML of the webpage in the output |
| Only Main Content | `only-main-content` | boolean | Only return the main content of the page excluding header, nav, footer. |
| Remove Tags | `remove-tags` | array[string] | A list of tags, classes, and ids to remove from the output. If empty, no tags will be removed. Example: 'script, .ad, #footer' |
| Only Include Tags | `only-include-tags` | array[string] | A list of tags, classes, and ids to include in the output. If empty, all tags will be included. Example: 'script, .ad, #footer' |
| Wait For | `wait-for` | integer | The time to wait for the page to load in milliseconds. Min 0, Max 60000. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Content | `content` | string | The scraped plain content without html tags of the webpage |
| Markdown | `markdown` | string | The scraped markdown of the webpage |
| HTML (optional) | `html` | string | The scraped html of the webpage |
| Metadata (optional) | `metadata` | object | The metadata of the webpage |
| Links on Page (optional) | `links-on-page` | array[string] | The list of links on the webpage |

Commit message:

feat(web): improve crawl website with goquery

operator/web/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Web"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Web component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Web component is an operator component that allows users to scrape websites.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Crawl Website](#crawl-website)
- [Scrape Sitemap](#scrape-sitemap)
- [Scrape Webpage](#scrape-webpage)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/operator/web/v0/config/definition.json).





## Supported Tasks

### Crawl Website

Crawl the website contents and manipulate html with jquery command. The sequence of jquery commands will be executed in the order of only-main-content, remove-tags, and only-include-tags.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CRAWL_WEBSITE` |
| Query (required) | `target-url` | string | The root URL to scrape. All links on this page will be scraped, and all links on those pages, and so on. |
| Allowed Domains | `allowed-domains` | array[string] | A list of domains that are allowed to be scraped. If empty, all domains are allowed. |
| Max Number of Pages (required) | `max-k` | integer | The max number of pages to return. If the number is set to 0, all pages will be returned. If the number is set to a positive integer, at most max k pages will be returned. |
| Include Link Text | `include-link-text` | boolean | Indicate whether to scrape the link and include the text of the link associated with this page in the 'link-text' field |
| Include Link HTML | `include-link-html` | boolean | Indicate whether to scrape the link and include the raw HTML of the link associated with this page in the 'link-html' field |
| Only Main Content | `only-main-content` | boolean | Only return the main content of the page excluding header, nav, footer. |
| Remove Tags | `remove-tags` | array[string] | A list of tags, classes, and ids to remove from the output. If empty, no tags will be removed. Example: 'script, .ad, #footer' |
| Only Include Tags | `only-include-tags` | array[string] | A list of tags, classes, and ids to include in the output. If empty, all tags will be included. Example: 'script, .ad, #footer' |
| Wait For | `wait-for` | integer | The time to wait for the page to load in milliseconds. Min 0, Max 60000. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Pages | `pages` | array[object] | The scraped webpages |






### Scrape Sitemap

Scrape the sitemap information


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SCRAPE_SITEMAP` |
| Sitemap URL (required) | `url` | string | The URL of the sitemap to scrape |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| List | `list` | array | The list of information in a sitemap |






### Scrape Webpage

Scrape the webpage contents and manipulate html with jquery command. The sequence of jquery commands will be executed in the order of only-main-content, remove-tags, and only-include-tags.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SCRAPE_WEBPAGE` |
| URL (required) | `url` | string | The URL to be scrape the webpage contents |
| Include HTML | `include-html` | boolean | Indicate whether to include the raw HTML of the webpage in the output |
| Only Main Content | `only-main-content` | boolean | Only return the main content of the page excluding header, nav, footer. |
| Remove Tags | `remove-tags` | array[string] | A list of tags, classes, and ids to remove from the output. If empty, no tags will be removed. Example: 'script, .ad, #footer' |
| Only Include Tags | `only-include-tags` | array[string] | A list of tags, classes, and ids to include in the output. If empty, all tags will be included. Example: 'script, .ad, #footer' |
| Wait For | `wait-for` | integer | The time to wait for the page to load in milliseconds. Min 0, Max 60000. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Content | `content` | string | The scraped plain content without html tags of the webpage |
| Markdown | `markdown` | string | The scraped markdown of the webpage |
| HTML (optional) | `html` | string | The scraped html of the webpage |
| Metadata (optional) | `metadata` | object | The metadata of the webpage |
| Links on Page (optional) | `links-on-page` | array[string] | The list of links on the webpage |
