data/sql/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "SQL"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP SQL component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The SQL component is a data component that allows users to access the SQL database of your choice.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Insert](#insert)
- [Insert Many](#insert-many)
- [Update](#update)
- [Select](#select)
- [Delete](#delete)
- [Create Table](#create-table)
- [Drop Table](#drop-table)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/sql/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Engine (required) | `engine` | string | Choose the engine of your database |
| Username (required) | `username` | string | Fill in your account username |
| Password (required) | `password` | string | Fill in your account password |
| Database Name (required) | `database-name` | string | Fill in the name of your database |
| Host (required) | `host` | string | Fill in the host of your database |
| Port (required) | `port` | number | Fill in the port of your database |
| SSL/TLS (required) | `ssl-tls` | object | Enable SSL/TLS |




## Supported Tasks

### Insert

Perform insert operation


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_INSERT` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to insert data into |
| Data (required) | `data` | object | The data to be inserted |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Insert status |






### Insert Many

Perform insert operation with multiple rows


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_INSERT_MANY` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to insert data into |
| Data (required) | `array-data` | array[object] | The array data to be inserted |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Insert many status |






### Update

Perform update operation


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPDATE` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to update data into |
| Filter (required) | `filter` | string | The filter to be applied to the data with SQL syntax, which starts with WHERE clause |
| Update (required) | `update-data` | object | The new data to be updated to |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Update status |






### Select

Perform select operation


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SELECT` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to be selected |
| Filter | `filter` | string | The filter to be applied to the data with SQL syntax, which starts with WHERE clause, empty for all rows |
| Limit | `limit` | integer | The limit of rows to be selected, empty for all rows |
| Columns | `columns` | array[string] | The columns to return in the rows. If empty then all columns will be returned |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Rows | `rows` | array[object] | The rows returned from the select operation |
| Status | `status` | string | Select status |






### Delete

Perform delete operation


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to be deleted |
| Filter (required) | `filter` | string | The filter to be applied to the data with SQL syntax, which starts with WHERE clause |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete status |






### Create Table

Create a table in the database


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_TABLE` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to be created |
| Columns (required) | `columns-structure` | object | The columns structure to be created in the table, json with value string, e.g \{"name": "VARCHAR(255)", "age": "INT not null"\} |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Create table status |






### Drop Table

Drop a table in the database


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DROP_TABLE` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to be dropped |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Drop table status |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

data/sql/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "SQL"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP SQL component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The SQL component is a data component that allows users to access the SQL database of your choice.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Insert](#insert)
- [Insert Many](#insert-many)
- [Update](#update)
- [Select](#select)
- [Delete](#delete)
- [Create Table](#create-table)
- [Drop Table](#drop-table)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/sql/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with the
external application, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Engine (required) | `engine` | string | Choose the engine of your database |
| Username (required) | `username` | string | Fill in your account username |
| Password (required) | `password` | string | Fill in your account password |
| Database Name (required) | `database-name` | string | Fill in the name of your database |
| Host (required) | `host` | string | Fill in the host of your database |
| Port (required) | `port` | number | Fill in the port of your database |
| SSL/TLS (required) | `ssl-tls` | object | Enable SSL/TLS |




## Supported Tasks

### Insert

Perform insert operation


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_INSERT` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to insert data into |
| Data (required) | `data` | object | The data to be inserted |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Insert status |






### Insert Many

Perform insert operation with multiple rows


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_INSERT_MANY` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to insert data into |
| Data (required) | `array-data` | array[object] | The array data to be inserted |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Insert many status |






### Update

Perform update operation


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UPDATE` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to update data into |
| Filter (required) | `filter` | string | The filter to be applied to the data with SQL syntax, which starts with WHERE clause |
| Update (required) | `update-data` | object | The new data to be updated to |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Update status |






### Select

Perform select operation


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SELECT` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to be selected |
| Filter | `filter` | string | The filter to be applied to the data with SQL syntax, which starts with WHERE clause, empty for all rows |
| Limit | `limit` | integer | The limit of rows to be selected, empty for all rows |
| Columns | `columns` | array[string] | The columns to return in the rows. If empty then all columns will be returned |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Rows | `rows` | array[object] | The rows returned from the select operation |
| Status | `status` | string | Select status |






### Delete

Perform delete operation


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to be deleted |
| Filter (required) | `filter` | string | The filter to be applied to the data with SQL syntax, which starts with WHERE clause |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Delete status |






### Create Table

Create a table in the database


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_CREATE_TABLE` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to be created |
| Columns (required) | `columns-structure` | object | The columns structure to be created in the table, json with value string, e.g \{"name": "VARCHAR(255)", "age": "INT not null"\} |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Create table status |






### Drop Table

Drop a table in the database


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DROP_TABLE` |
| Table Name (required) | `table-name` | string | The table name in the database to be dropped |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | string | Drop table status |
