operator/json/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "JSON"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP JSON component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The JSON component is an operator component that allows users to manipulate and convert JSON objects.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Marshal](#marshal)
- [Unmarshal](#unmarshal)
- [jq](#jq)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/operator/json/v0/config/definition.json).





## Supported Tasks

### Marshal

Convert JSON to a string


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_MARSHAL` |
| JSON (required) | `json` | any | JSON input to be marshaled |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| JSON string | `string` | string | String representation of the JSON input |






### Unmarshal

Convert a string to JSON


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UNMARSHAL` |
| String (required) | `string` | string | JSON string to be unmarshaled |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| JSON | `json` | any | JSON object extracted from the string input |






### jq

Process JSON through a `jq` command


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_JQ` |
| JSON input (required) | `jsonInput` | string | JSON string to be processed |
| Filter (required) | `jqFilter` | string | Filter, in `jq` syntax, that will be applied to the JSON input |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Results | `results` | array | The `jq` command results. Depending on the filter and the input JSON the type of each element may vary. |

Commit message:

feat: add JQ input field that accepts any type (#201)
Because

- The `jq` task took only strings, which can be leveraged for reference
but forced users to pre-process objects with another JSON operator that
marshalled the input.

This commit

- Introduces a new input field for the task, which can be any object
- The old value is hidden under the "More" settings section. If the new
field is empty, task will fall back to the old field (for backwards
compatibility).
- Removes object type assumption in unmarshal task: now it can unmarshal
any valid JSON value.

operator/json/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "JSON"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP JSON component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The JSON component is an operator component that allows users to manipulate and convert JSON objects.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Marshal](#marshal)
- [Unmarshal](#unmarshal)
- [jq](#jq)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/operator/json/v0/config/definition.json).





## Supported Tasks

### Marshal

Convert JSON to a string


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_MARSHAL` |
| JSON (required) | `json` | any | JSON input to be marshaled |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| JSON string | `string` | string | String representation of the JSON input |






### Unmarshal

Convert a string to JSON


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_UNMARSHAL` |
| String (required) | `string` | string | JSON string to be unmarshaled |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| JSON | `json` | any | JSON object extracted from the string input |






### jq

Process JSON through a `jq` command


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_JQ` |
| JSON value | `json-value` | any | JSON value (e.g. string, number, object, array...) to be processed by the filter |
| Filter (required) | `jqFilter` | string | Filter, in `jq` syntax, that will be applied to the JSON input |
| (DEPRECATED) JSON input | `jsonInput` | string | (DEPRECATED, use 'JSON value' instead) JSON string to be processed. This field allows templated inputs, but the data might preprocessing (marshalling). This field will be used in absence of 'JSON value' for backwards compatibility reasons. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Results | `results` | array | The `jq` command results. Depending on the filter and the input JSON the type of each element may vary. |
