ai/openai/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "OpenAI"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP OpenAI component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The OpenAI component is an AI component that allows users to connect the AI models served on the OpenAI Platform.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Text Generation](#text-generation)
- [Text Embeddings](#text-embeddings)
- [Speech Recognition](#speech-recognition)
- [Text To Speech](#text-to-speech)
- [Text To Image](#text-to-image)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/ai/openai/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key | `api-key` | string | Fill in your OpenAI API key. To find your keys, visit your OpenAI's API Keys page. |
| Organization ID | `organization` | string | Specify which organization is used for the requests. Usage will count against the specified organization's subscription quota. |




## Supported Tasks

### Text Generation

Provide text outputs in response to their inputs.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_GENERATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | ID of the model to use. |
| Prompt (required) | `prompt` | string | The prompt text |
| System message | `system-message` | string | The system message helps set the behavior of the assistant. For example, you can modify the personality of the assistant or provide specific instructions about how it should behave throughout the conversation. By default, the model’s behavior is using a generic message as "You are a helpful assistant." |
| Image | `images` | array[string] | The images |
| Chat history | `chat-history` | array[object] | Incorporate external chat history, specifically previous messages within the conversation. Please note that System Message will be ignored and will not have any effect when this field is populated. Each message should adhere to the format \{"role": "The message role, i.e. 'system', 'user' or 'assistant'", "content": "message content"\}. |
| Temperature | `temperature` | number | What sampling temperature to use, between 0 and 2. Higher values like 0.8 will make the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused and deterministic.  We generally recommend altering this or `top-p` but not both.  |
| N | `n` | integer | How many chat completion choices to generate for each input message. Note that you will be charged based on the number of generated tokens across all of the choices. Keep `n` as `1` to minimize costs. |
| Max Tokens | `max-tokens` | integer | The maximum number of tokens that can be generated in the chat completion.  The total length of input tokens and generated tokens is limited by the model's context length. |
| Response Format | `response-format` | object | Response format. |
| Top P | `top-p` | number | An alternative to sampling with temperature, called nucleus sampling, where the model considers the results of the tokens with top_p probability mass. So 0.1 means only the tokens comprising the top 10% probability mass are considered.  We generally recommend altering this or `temperature` but not both.  |
| Presence Penalty | `presence-penalty` | number | Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on whether they appear in the text so far, increasing the model's likelihood to talk about new topics. |
| Frequency Penalty | `frequency-penalty` | number | Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on their existing frequency in the text so far, decreasing the model's likelihood to repeat the same line verbatim. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Texts | `texts` | array[string] | Texts |
| Usage (optional) | `usage` | object | Usage statistics related to the query |






### Text Embeddings

Turn text into numbers, unlocking use cases like search.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_EMBEDDINGS` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | ID of the model to use. |
| Text (required) | `text` | string | The text |
| Dimensions | `dimensions` | integer | The number of dimensions the resulting output embeddings should have. Only supported in text-embedding-3 and later models. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Embedding | `embedding` | array[number] | Embedding of the input text |






### Speech Recognition

Turn audio into text.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SPEECH_RECOGNITION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | ID of the model to use. Only `whisper-1` is currently available.  |
| Audio (required) | `audio` | string | The audio file object (not file name) to transcribe, in one of these formats: flac, mp3, mp4, mpeg, mpga, m4a, ogg, wav, or webm.  |
| Prompt | `prompt` | string | An optional text to guide the model's style or continue a previous audio segment. The prompt should match the audio language.  |
| Language | `language` | string | The language of the input audio. Supplying the input language in <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes">ISO-639-1</a> format will improve accuracy and latency.  |
| Temperature | `temperature` | number | The sampling temperature, between 0 and 1. Higher values like 0.8 will make the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused and deterministic. If set to 0, the model will use <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Log_probability">log probability</a> to automatically increase the temperature until certain thresholds are hit.  |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Text | `text` | string | Generated text |






### Text To Speech

Turn text into lifelike spoken audio


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_TO_SPEECH` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | One of the available TTS models: `tts-1` or `tts-1-hd`  |
| Text (required) | `text` | string | The text to generate audio for. The maximum length is 4096 characters. |
| Voice (required) | `voice` | string | The voice to use when generating the audio. Supported voices are `alloy`, `echo`, `fable`, `onyx`, `nova`, and `shimmer`. |
| Response Format | `response-format` | string | The format to audio in. Supported formats are `mp3`, `opus`, `aac`, and `flac`. |
| Speed | `speed` | number | The speed of the generated audio. Select a value from `0.25` to `4.0`. `1.0` is the default. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Audio (optional) | `audio` | string | AI generated audio |






### Text To Image

Generate or manipulate images with DALL·E.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_TO_IMAGE` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The model to use for image generation. |
| Prompt (required) | `prompt` | string | A text description of the desired image(s). The maximum length is 1000 characters for `dall-e-2` and 4000 characters for `dall-e-3`. |
| N | `n` | integer | The number of images to generate. Must be between 1 and 10. For `dall-e-3`, only `n=1` is supported. |
| Quality | `quality` | string | The quality of the image that will be generated. `hd` creates images with finer details and greater consistency across the image. This param is only supported for `dall-e-3`. |
| Size | `size` | string | The size of the generated images. Must be one of `256x256`, `512x512`, or `1024x1024` for `dall-e-2`. Must be one of `1024x1024`, `1792x1024`, or `1024x1792` for `dall-e-3` models. |
| N | `style` | string | The style of the generated images. Must be one of `vivid` or `natural`. Vivid causes the model to lean towards generating hyper-real and dramatic images. Natural causes the model to produce more natural, less hyper-real looking images. This param is only supported for `dall-e-3`. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Images | `results` | array[object] | Generated results |






## Example Recipes

Recipe for the [PicassoAI: Cubist Creations at Your Command!](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/picasso-ai/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    mistral-0:
        type: mistral-ai
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT
        input:
            max-new-tokens: 100
            model-name: open-mixtral-8x22b
            prompt: |-
                Generate a Picasso-inspired image based on the following user input:

                ${variable.prompt}

                Using the specified Picasso period: ${variable.period}


                Transform this input into a detailed text-to-image prompt by:

                1. Identifying the key elements or subjects in the user's description

                2. Adding artistic elements and techniques specific to the ${variable.period} period of Picasso's work

                3. Including cubist or abstract features characteristic of the ${variable.period}

                4. Suggesting a composition or scene layout typical of Picasso's work from this era

                Enhance the prompt with vivid, descriptive language and specific Picasso-style elements from the ${variable.period}. The final prompt should begin with "Create an image in the style of Picasso's ${variable.period} period:" followed by the enhanced description.
            safe: false
            system-message: You are a helpful assistant.
            temperature: 0.7
            top-k: 10
            top-p: 0.5
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
    openai-0:
        type: openai
        task: TASK_TEXT_TO_IMAGE
        input:
            model: dall-e-3
            "n": 1
            prompt: |-
                Using this primary color palette: ${variable.colour}

                 ${mistral-0.output.text}
            quality: standard
            size: 1024x1024
            style: vivid
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    colour:
        title: Colour
        description: Describe the main colour to use i.e. blue, random
        instill-format: string
        instill-ui-order: 1
    period:
        title: Period
        description: |
            Input different Picasso periods i.e. Blue, Rose, African, Synthetic Cubism, etc.
        instill-format: string
    prompt:
        title: Prompt
        description: Input prompt here i.e. "A cute baby wombat"
        instill-format: string
output:
    image:
        title: Image
        value: ${openai-0.output.results}
```


Recipe for the [Explain this topic to me in another language](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/gpt-4o-mini-demo/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    openai:
        type: openai
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION
        input:
            model: gpt-4o-mini
            "n": 1
            prompt: |-
                Talk about this topic in ${variable.language}  in a concise and beginner-friendly way:
                ${variable.prompt}
            response-format:
                type: text
            system-message: You are a helpful assistant.
            temperature: 1
            top-p: 1
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    language:
        title: Language
        description: Input a language i.e. Chinese, Japanese, French, etc.
        instill-format: string
    prompt:
        title: Prompt
        description: Write the topic you want to ask about here i.e. "Tell me about small LLMs"
        instill-format: string
output:
    result:
        title: Result
        value: ${openai.output.texts}
```

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

ai/openai/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "OpenAI"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP OpenAI component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The OpenAI component is an AI component that allows users to connect the AI models served on the OpenAI Platform.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Text Generation](#text-generation)
- [Text Embeddings](#text-embeddings)
- [Speech Recognition](#speech-recognition)
- [Text To Speech](#text-to-speech)
- [Text To Image](#text-to-image)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/ai/openai/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with OpenAI, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| API Key | `api-key` | string | Fill in your OpenAI API key. To find your keys, visit your OpenAI's API Keys page. |
| Organization ID | `organization` | string | Specify which organization is used for the requests. Usage will count against the specified organization's subscription quota. |




## Supported Tasks

### Text Generation

Provide text outputs in response to their inputs.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_GENERATION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | ID of the model to use. |
| Prompt (required) | `prompt` | string | The prompt text |
| System message | `system-message` | string | The system message helps set the behavior of the assistant. For example, you can modify the personality of the assistant or provide specific instructions about how it should behave throughout the conversation. By default, the model’s behavior is using a generic message as "You are a helpful assistant." |
| Image | `images` | array[string] | The images |
| Chat history | `chat-history` | array[object] | Incorporate external chat history, specifically previous messages within the conversation. Please note that System Message will be ignored and will not have any effect when this field is populated. Each message should adhere to the format \{"role": "The message role, i.e. 'system', 'user' or 'assistant'", "content": "message content"\}. |
| Temperature | `temperature` | number | What sampling temperature to use, between 0 and 2. Higher values like 0.8 will make the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused and deterministic.  We generally recommend altering this or `top-p` but not both.  |
| N | `n` | integer | How many chat completion choices to generate for each input message. Note that you will be charged based on the number of generated tokens across all of the choices. Keep `n` as `1` to minimize costs. |
| Max Tokens | `max-tokens` | integer | The maximum number of tokens that can be generated in the chat completion.  The total length of input tokens and generated tokens is limited by the model's context length. |
| Response Format | `response-format` | object | Response format. |
| Top P | `top-p` | number | An alternative to sampling with temperature, called nucleus sampling, where the model considers the results of the tokens with top_p probability mass. So 0.1 means only the tokens comprising the top 10% probability mass are considered.  We generally recommend altering this or `temperature` but not both.  |
| Presence Penalty | `presence-penalty` | number | Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on whether they appear in the text so far, increasing the model's likelihood to talk about new topics. |
| Frequency Penalty | `frequency-penalty` | number | Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on their existing frequency in the text so far, decreasing the model's likelihood to repeat the same line verbatim. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Texts | `texts` | array[string] | Texts |
| Usage (optional) | `usage` | object | Usage statistics related to the query |






### Text Embeddings

Turn text into numbers, unlocking use cases like search.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_EMBEDDINGS` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | ID of the model to use. |
| Text (required) | `text` | string | The text |
| Dimensions | `dimensions` | integer | The number of dimensions the resulting output embeddings should have. Only supported in text-embedding-3 and later models. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Embedding | `embedding` | array[number] | Embedding of the input text |






### Speech Recognition

Turn audio into text.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_SPEECH_RECOGNITION` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | ID of the model to use. Only `whisper-1` is currently available.  |
| Audio (required) | `audio` | string | The audio file object (not file name) to transcribe, in one of these formats: flac, mp3, mp4, mpeg, mpga, m4a, ogg, wav, or webm.  |
| Prompt | `prompt` | string | An optional text to guide the model's style or continue a previous audio segment. The prompt should match the audio language.  |
| Language | `language` | string | The language of the input audio. Supplying the input language in <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes">ISO-639-1</a> format will improve accuracy and latency.  |
| Temperature | `temperature` | number | The sampling temperature, between 0 and 1. Higher values like 0.8 will make the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused and deterministic. If set to 0, the model will use <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Log_probability">log probability</a> to automatically increase the temperature until certain thresholds are hit.  |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Text | `text` | string | Generated text |






### Text To Speech

Turn text into lifelike spoken audio


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_TO_SPEECH` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | One of the available TTS models: `tts-1` or `tts-1-hd`  |
| Text (required) | `text` | string | The text to generate audio for. The maximum length is 4096 characters. |
| Voice (required) | `voice` | string | The voice to use when generating the audio. Supported voices are `alloy`, `echo`, `fable`, `onyx`, `nova`, and `shimmer`. |
| Response Format | `response-format` | string | The format to audio in. Supported formats are `mp3`, `opus`, `aac`, and `flac`. |
| Speed | `speed` | number | The speed of the generated audio. Select a value from `0.25` to `4.0`. `1.0` is the default. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Audio (optional) | `audio` | string | AI generated audio |






### Text To Image

Generate or manipulate images with DALL·E.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_TEXT_TO_IMAGE` |
| Model (required) | `model` | string | The model to use for image generation. |
| Prompt (required) | `prompt` | string | A text description of the desired image(s). The maximum length is 1000 characters for `dall-e-2` and 4000 characters for `dall-e-3`. |
| N | `n` | integer | The number of images to generate. Must be between 1 and 10. For `dall-e-3`, only `n=1` is supported. |
| Quality | `quality` | string | The quality of the image that will be generated. `hd` creates images with finer details and greater consistency across the image. This param is only supported for `dall-e-3`. |
| Size | `size` | string | The size of the generated images. Must be one of `256x256`, `512x512`, or `1024x1024` for `dall-e-2`. Must be one of `1024x1024`, `1792x1024`, or `1024x1792` for `dall-e-3` models. |
| N | `style` | string | The style of the generated images. Must be one of `vivid` or `natural`. Vivid causes the model to lean towards generating hyper-real and dramatic images. Natural causes the model to produce more natural, less hyper-real looking images. This param is only supported for `dall-e-3`. |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Images | `results` | array[object] | Generated results |






## Example Recipes

Recipe for the [PicassoAI: Cubist Creations at Your Command!](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/picasso-ai/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    mistral-0:
        type: mistral-ai
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION_CHAT
        input:
            max-new-tokens: 100
            model-name: open-mixtral-8x22b
            prompt: |-
                Generate a Picasso-inspired image based on the following user input:

                ${variable.prompt}

                Using the specified Picasso period: ${variable.period}


                Transform this input into a detailed text-to-image prompt by:

                1. Identifying the key elements or subjects in the user's description

                2. Adding artistic elements and techniques specific to the ${variable.period} period of Picasso's work

                3. Including cubist or abstract features characteristic of the ${variable.period}

                4. Suggesting a composition or scene layout typical of Picasso's work from this era

                Enhance the prompt with vivid, descriptive language and specific Picasso-style elements from the ${variable.period}. The final prompt should begin with "Create an image in the style of Picasso's ${variable.period} period:" followed by the enhanced description.
            safe: false
            system-message: You are a helpful assistant.
            temperature: 0.7
            top-k: 10
            top-p: 0.5
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
    openai-0:
        type: openai
        task: TASK_TEXT_TO_IMAGE
        input:
            model: dall-e-3
            "n": 1
            prompt: |-
                Using this primary color palette: ${variable.colour}

                 ${mistral-0.output.text}
            quality: standard
            size: 1024x1024
            style: vivid
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    colour:
        title: Colour
        description: Describe the main colour to use i.e. blue, random
        instill-format: string
        instill-ui-order: 1
    period:
        title: Period
        description: |
            Input different Picasso periods i.e. Blue, Rose, African, Synthetic Cubism, etc.
        instill-format: string
    prompt:
        title: Prompt
        description: Input prompt here i.e. "A cute baby wombat"
        instill-format: string
output:
    image:
        title: Image
        value: ${openai-0.output.results}
```


Recipe for the [Explain this topic to me in another language](https://instill.tech/instill-ai/pipelines/gpt-4o-mini-demo/playground) pipeline.

```yaml
version: v1beta
component:
    openai:
        type: openai
        task: TASK_TEXT_GENERATION
        input:
            model: gpt-4o-mini
            "n": 1
            prompt: |-
                Talk about this topic in ${variable.language}  in a concise and beginner-friendly way:
                ${variable.prompt}
            response-format:
                type: text
            system-message: You are a helpful assistant.
            temperature: 1
            top-p: 1
        setup:
            api-key: ${secret.INSTILL_SECRET}
variable:
    language:
        title: Language
        description: Input a language i.e. Chinese, Japanese, French, etc.
        instill-format: string
    prompt:
        title: Prompt
        description: Write the topic you want to ask about here i.e. "Tell me about small LLMs"
        instill-format: string
output:
    result:
        title: Result
        value: ${openai.output.texts}
```
