generic/restapi/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "REST API"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP REST API component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The REST API component is a generic component that allows users to make requests to external REST APIs.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Get](#get)
- [Post](#post)
- [Patch](#patch)
- [Put](#put)
- [Delete](#delete)
- [Head](#head)
- [Options](#options)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/generic/restapi/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Authentication (required) | `authentication` | object | Authentication method to use for the REST API |




## Supported Tasks

### Get

Send a HTTP GET request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The request body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Post

Send a HTTP POST request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_POST` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `body` | any | The request body |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The JSON schema of output body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Patch

Send a HTTP PATCH request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_PATCH` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `body` | any | The request body |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The JSON schema of output body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Put

Send a HTTP PUT request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_PUT` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `body` | any | The request body |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The JSON schema of output body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Delete

Send a HTTP DELETE request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `body` | any | The request body |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The JSON schema of output body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Head

Send a HTTP HEAD request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_HEAD` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The request body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Options

Send a HTTP OPTIONS request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_OPTIONS` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `body` | any | The request body |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The JSON schema of output body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

generic/restapi/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "REST API"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP REST API component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The REST API component is a generic component that allows users to make requests to external REST APIs.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Get](#get)
- [Post](#post)
- [Patch](#patch)
- [Put](#put)
- [Delete](#delete)
- [Head](#head)
- [Options](#options)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/generic/restapi/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with the
external application, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Authentication (required) | `authentication` | object | Authentication method to use for the REST API |




## Supported Tasks

### Get

Send a HTTP GET request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_GET` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The request body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Post

Send a HTTP POST request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_POST` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `body` | any | The request body |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The JSON schema of output body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Patch

Send a HTTP PATCH request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_PATCH` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `body` | any | The request body |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The JSON schema of output body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Put

Send a HTTP PUT request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_PUT` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `body` | any | The request body |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The JSON schema of output body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Delete

Send a HTTP DELETE request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DELETE` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `body` | any | The request body |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The JSON schema of output body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Head

Send a HTTP HEAD request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_HEAD` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The request body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |






### Options

Send a HTTP OPTIONS request.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_OPTIONS` |
| Endpoint Url (required) | `endpoint-url` | string | The API endpoint url |
| Body | `body` | any | The request body |
| Body | `output-body-schema` | string | The JSON schema of output body |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status Code | `status-code` | integer | The HTTP status code of the response |
| Body | `body` | any | The body of the response |
| Header | `header` | object | The HTTP header of the response |
