application/email/v0/.compogen/extra-read-mails.mdx, before:

For Search object

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Server Address (required) | `server-address` | string | The address of the email server |
| Server Port (required) | `server-port` | integer | The port of the email server |
| Mailbox (required) | `mailbox` | string | The mailbox you want to fetch from email server |
| Search Subject Text | `search-subject-text` | string | The text you want to search in the subject of the email |
| Search From Email | `search-from-email` | string | The email address you want to search in the from field of the email |
| Search To Email | `search-to-email` | string | The email address you want to search in the to field of the email |
| Search Date | `search-date` | string | The date you want to search in the email |
| Search Email Message | `search-email-message` | string | The text you want to search in the email message |
| Limit | `limit` | integer | The maximum number of emails to search for |


For Emails object

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Date | `date` | string | The date of the email |
| From | `from` | string | The email address of the sender |
| To | `to` | array[string] | The email address of the recipient |
| Subject | `subject` | string | The subject of the email |
| Message | `message` | string | The message of the email |


Supported Provider Samples

| Provider | IMAP Server Address | Port |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Gmail | imap.gmail.com | 993 |
| Outlook | imap-mail.outlook.com | 993 |
| office365 | outlook.office365.com | 993 |
| Yahoo | imap.mail.yahoo.com | 993 |
| iCloud | imap.mail.me.com | 993 |

Mailbox
Currently, we only support INBOX, Sent, and Drafts mailbox.

Commit message:

fix: modify doc, change function name, and make mailbox plaintext

application/email/v0/.compogen/extra-read-mails.mdx, after:

For Search object

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Mailbox (required) | `mailbox` | string | The mailbox you want to fetch from email server |
| Search Subject | `search-subject` | string | The text you want to search in the subject of the email |
| Search From | `search-from` | string | The email address you want to search in the from field of the email |
| Search To | `search-to` | string | The email address you want to search in the to field of the email |
| Search Date | `search-date` | string | The date you want to search in the email |
| Search Email Message | `search-email-message` | string | The text you want to search in the email message |
| Limit | `limit` | integer | The maximum number of emails to search for |


For Mailbox, you have to confirm what exactly the mailbox name is.
Take Gmail as an example, the mailbox names are following.

| Mailbox | Mailbox Name to input |
| :--- | :--- |
| Inbox | `INBOX` |
| Sent | `[Gmail]/Sent Mail` |
| Drafts | `[Gmail]/Drafts` |


For Emails object

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Date | `date` | string | The date of the email |
| From | `from` | string | The email address of the sender |
| To | `to` | array[string] | The email address of the recipient |
| Subject | `subject` | string | The subject of the email |
| Message | `message` | string | The message of the email |
