generic/collection/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Collection"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Collection component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Collection component is a generic component that allows users to manipulate collection-type data.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Declare](#declare)
- [Append Array](#append-array)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/generic/collection/v0/config/definition.json).







## Supported Tasks

### Declare

Set the data.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_DECLARE` |
| Data (required) | `data` | any | Specify the data you want to set. |









| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Data | `data` | any | The data you set. |









### Append Array

Add data to the end of an array.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_APPEND_ARRAY` |
| Array (required) | `array` | array | Specify the array you want to append to. |
| Data (required) | `element` | any | Specify the data you want to append. |









| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Array | `array` | array | A updated array with the specified data appended to the end of it. |

Commit message:

chore(collection): rename TASK_DECLARE to TASK_ASSIGN

generic/collection/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Collection"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Collection component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Collection component is a generic component that allows users to manipulate collection-type data.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Assign](#assign)
- [Append Array](#append-array)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/generic/collection/v0/config/definition.json).







## Supported Tasks

### Assign

Assign the data.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_ASSIGN` |
| Data (required) | `data` | any | Specify the data you want to assign. |









| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Data | `data` | any | The data you assign. |









### Append Array

Add data to the end of an array.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_APPEND_ARRAY` |
| Array (required) | `array` | array | Specify the array you want to append to. |
| Data (required) | `element` | any | Specify the data you want to append. |









| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Array | `array` | array | A updated array with the specified data appended to the end of it. |
