data/redis/v0/README.mdx, before:

---
title: "Redis"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Redis component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Redis component is a data component that allows users to manage data in NoSQL Redis databases.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Retrieve Chat History](#retrieve-chat-history)
- [Write Chat Message](#write-chat-message)
- [Write Multi Modal Chat Message](#write-multi-modal-chat-message)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/redis/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup


| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Host (required) | `host` | string | Redis host to connect to |
| Port (required) | `port` | integer | Port of Redis |
| Username | `username` | string | Username associated with Redis |
| Password | `password` | string | Password associated with Redis |
| SSL Connection | `ssl` | boolean | Indicates whether SSL encryption protocol will be used to connect to Redis. It is recommended to use SSL connection if possible. |




## Supported Tasks

### Retrieve Chat History

Retrieve chat history from Redis.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_RETRIEVE_CHAT_HISTORY` |
| Session ID (required) | `session-id` | string | A unique identifier for the chat session |
| Latest K | `latest-k` | integer | The number of latest conversation turns to retrieve. A conversation turn typically includes one participant speaking or sending a message, and the other participant(s) responding to it. |
| Include System Message If Exists | `include-system-message` | boolean | Include system message in the retrieved conversation turns if exists |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Chat Message | `messages` | array[object] | Messages |






### Write Chat Message

Write chat message into Redis.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_WRITE_CHAT_MESSAGE` |
| Session ID (required) | `session-id` | string | A unique identifier for the chat session |
| Role (required) | `role` | string | The message role, i.e. 'system', 'user' or 'assistant' |
| Content (required) | `content` | string | The message content |
| Metadata | `metadata` | object | The message metadata |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | boolean | The status of the write operation |






### Write Multi Modal Chat Message

Write multi-modal chat message into Redis.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_WRITE_MULTI_MODAL_CHAT_MESSAGE` |
| Session ID (required) | `session-id` | string | A unique identifier for the chat session |
| Role (required) | `role` | string | The message role, i.e. 'system', 'user' or 'assistant' |
| Content (required) | `content` | string | The multi-modal message content |
| Metadata | `metadata` | object | The message metadata |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | boolean | The status of the write operation |

Commit message:

feat(compogen): add reference to integrations on Setup block (#323)
Because

- Component setup can be now written directly in the recipe or as a
reference to a Connection.

This commit

- Documents how to set up a component on its README doc.

data/redis/v0/README.mdx, after:

---
title: "Redis"
lang: "en-US"
draft: false
description: "Learn about how to set up a VDP Redis component https://github.com/instill-ai/instill-core"
---

The Redis component is a data component that allows users to manage data in NoSQL Redis databases.
It can carry out the following tasks:

- [Retrieve Chat History](#retrieve-chat-history)
- [Write Chat Message](#write-chat-message)
- [Write Multi Modal Chat Message](#write-multi-modal-chat-message)



## Release Stage

`Alpha`



## Configuration

The component configuration is defined and maintained [here](https://github.com/instill-ai/component/blob/main/data/redis/v0/config/definition.json).




## Setup




In order to communicate with Redis Labs, the following connection details need to be
provided. You may specify them directly in a pipeline recipe as key-value pairs
withing the component's `setup` block, or you can create a **Connection** from
the [**Integration Settings**](https://www.instill.tech/docs/vdp/integration)
page and reference the whole `setup` as `setup:
${connection.<my-connection-id>}`.

| Field | Field ID | Type | Note |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Host (required) | `host` | string | Redis host to connect to |
| Port (required) | `port` | integer | Port of Redis |
| Username | `username` | string | Username associated with Redis |
| Password | `password` | string | Password associated with Redis |
| SSL Connection | `ssl` | boolean | Indicates whether SSL encryption protocol will be used to connect to Redis. It is recommended to use SSL connection if possible. |




## Supported Tasks

### Retrieve Chat History

Retrieve chat history from Redis.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_RETRIEVE_CHAT_HISTORY` |
| Session ID (required) | `session-id` | string | A unique identifier for the chat session |
| Latest K | `latest-k` | integer | The number of latest conversation turns to retrieve. A conversation turn typically includes one participant speaking or sending a message, and the other participant(s) responding to it. |
| Include System Message If Exists | `include-system-message` | boolean | Include system message in the retrieved conversation turns if exists |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Chat Message | `messages` | array[object] | Messages |






### Write Chat Message

Write chat message into Redis.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_WRITE_CHAT_MESSAGE` |
| Session ID (required) | `session-id` | string | A unique identifier for the chat session |
| Role (required) | `role` | string | The message role, i.e. 'system', 'user' or 'assistant' |
| Content (required) | `content` | string | The message content |
| Metadata | `metadata` | object | The message metadata |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | boolean | The status of the write operation |






### Write Multi Modal Chat Message

Write multi-modal chat message into Redis.


| Input | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Task ID (required) | `task` | string | `TASK_WRITE_MULTI_MODAL_CHAT_MESSAGE` |
| Session ID (required) | `session-id` | string | A unique identifier for the chat session |
| Role (required) | `role` | string | The message role, i.e. 'system', 'user' or 'assistant' |
| Content (required) | `content` | string | The multi-modal message content |
| Metadata | `metadata` | object | The message metadata |



| Output | ID | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Status | `status` | boolean | The status of the write operation |
